### **CHAPTER 25—FEDERAL FLOOD INSURANCE**

### §2414. Issuance of notes by Administrator of Federal Emergency Management Agency; terms and conditions
#### (a) to (d) Repealed. Pub. L. 90–448, title XIII, §1303(c), Aug. 1, 1968, 82 Stat. 573
#### (e) Issuance of notes by Administrator of Federal Emergency Management Agency; form, terms and conditions; purchase and sale by Secretary of the Treasury; public debt transactions
* The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency is authorized to issue to the Secretary of the Treasury from time to time and have outstanding at any one time, in an amount not exceeding $500,000,000 (or such greater amount as may be approved by the President) notes or other obligations in such forms and denominations, bearing such maturities, and subject to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury. Such notes or other obligations shall bear interest at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration the current average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities during the month preceding the issuance of such notes or other obligations. The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to purchase any notes and other obligations to be issued under this subsection and for such purpose he is authorized to use as a public debt transaction the proceeds from the sale of any securities issued under chapter 31 of title 31, and the purposes for which securities may be issued under such chapter are extended to include any purchases of such notes and obligations.

* The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time sell any of the notes or other obligations acquired by him under this section. All redemptions, purchases, and sales by the Secretary of the Treasury of such notes or other obligations shall be treated as public debt transactions of the United States.