### SUBCHAPTER XXXIII—SAN JUAN ISLAND NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK

### §282. Acquisition of property; purpose; authority of Secretary; manner and place; donation of State lands
* The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to acquire on behalf of the United States by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or by exchange, lands, interests in lands, and such other property on San Juan Island, Puget Sound, State of Washington, as the Secretary may deem necessary for the purpose of interpreting and preserving the sites of the American and English camps on the island, and of commemorating the historic events that occurred from 1853 to 1871 on the island in connection with the final settlement of the Oregon Territory boundary dispute, including the so-called Pig War of 1859. Lands or interests therein owned by the State of Washington or a political subdivision thereof may be acquired only by donation.

### §282a. Designation; administration, protection, and development
* The property acquired under the provisions of section 282 of this title shall be known as the San Juan Island National Historical Park and shall commemorate the final settlement by arbitration of the Oregon boundary dispute and the peaceful relationship which has existed between the United States and Canada for generations. The Secretary of the Interior shall administer, protect, and develop such park in accordance with the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), as amended and supplemented, and the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.).

### §282b. Cooperative agreements with State of Washington and others; erection and maintenance of tablets or markers
* The Secretary of the Interior may enter into cooperative agreements with the State of Washington, political subdivisions thereof, corporations, associations, or individuals, for the preservation of nationally significant historic sites and structures and for the interpretation of significant events which occurred on San Juan Island, in Puget Sound, and on the nearby mainland, and he may erect and maintain tablets or markers at appropriate sites in accordance with the provisions of the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.).

### §282c. Authorization of appropriations
* There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums, but not more than $13,575,000 for the acquisition of lands and interests therein and for the development of the San Juan National Historical Park.