### **CHAPTER 2—SANITATION AND QUARANTINE**

### §88. Discharge of cargo of vessel in quarantine
* Whenever, by the health laws of any State, or by the regulations made pursuant thereto, any vessel arriving within a collection district of such State is prohibited from coming to the port of entry by law established for such district, and such health laws require or permit the cargo of the vessel to be unladen at some other place within or near to such district, the collector, after due report to him of the whole of such cargo, may grant his warrant or permit for the unlading and discharge thereof, under the care of the surveyor, or of one or more inspectors, at some other place where such health laws permit, and upon the conditions and restrictions which shall be directed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or which such collector may, for the time, deem expedient for the security of the public revenue.

### §89. Quarantine warehouses; erection
* There shall be purchased or erected, under the orders of the President, suitable warehouses, with wharves and inclosures, where merchandise may be unladen and deposited, from any vessel which shall be subject to a quarantine, or other restraint, pursuant to the health laws of any State, at such convenient places therein as the safety of the public revenue and the observance of such health laws may require.

### §90. Deposit of goods in warehouses
* Whenever the cargo of a vessel is unladen at some other place than the port of entry under sections 88 and 89 of this title, all the articles of such cargo shall be deposited, at the risk of the parties concerned therein, in such public or other warehouses or inclosures as the collector shall designate, there to remain under the joint custody of such collector and of the owner, or master, or other person having charge of such vessel, until the same are entirely unladen or discharged, and until the articles so deposited may be safely removed without contravening such health laws. And when such removal is allowed, the collector having charge of such articles may grant permits to the respective owners or consignees, their factors or agents, to receive all merchandise which has been entered, and the duties accruing upon which have been paid, upon the payment by them of a reasonable rate of storage; which shall be fixed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services for all public warehouses and inclosures.

### §91. Extending time for entry of vessels subject to quarantine
* The Secretary of Health and Human Services is authorized, whenever a conformity to such quarantines and health laws requires it, and in respect to vessels subject thereto, to prolong the terms limited for the entry of the same, and the report or entry of their cargoes, and to vary or dispense with any other regulations applicable to such reports or entries. No part of the cargo of any vessel shall, however, in any case, be taken out or unladen therefrom, otherwise than is allowed by law, or according to the regulations established by sections 88 and 90 of this title.

### §97. State health laws observed by United States officers
* The quarantines and other restraints established by the health laws of any State, respecting any vessels arriving in, or bound to, any port or district thereof, shall be duly observed by the officers of the customs revenue of the United States, by the masters and crews of the several Coast Guard vessels, and by the military officers commanding in any fort or station upon the seacoast; and all such officers of the United States shall faithfully aid in the execution of such quarantines and health laws, according to their respective powers and within their respective precincts, and as they shall be directed, from time to time, by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. But nothing in title 58 of the Revised Statutes shall enable any State to collect a duty of tonnage or impost without the consent of Congress.

### §98. Vessels for quarantine officers
* The Secretary of the Navy is authorized, in his discretion, at the request of the Secretary of Health and Human Services, to place gratuitously, at the disposal of the proper quarantine authorities, at any of the ports of the United States, to be used temporarily for quarantine purposes, such vessels or hulks belonging to the United States as are not required for other uses of the national government, subject to such restrictions and regulations as the Secretary of the Navy may deem necessary to impose for the preservation thereof.

### §112. Removal of revenue officers from port during epidemic
* Whenever, by the prevalence of any contagious or epidemic disease in or near the place by law established as the port of entry for any collection district, it becomes dangerous or inconvenient for the officers of the revenue employed therein to continue the discharge of their respective offices at such port, the Secretary of the Treasury, or, in his absence, the Undersecretary of the Treasury, may direct the removal of the officers of the revenue from such port to any other more convenient place, within, or as near as may be to, such collection district. And at such place such officers may exercise the same powers, and shall be liable to the same duties, according to existing circumstances, as in the port or district established by law. Public notice of any such removal shall be given as soon as may be.