### SUBCHAPTER XVII—BIG BEND NATIONAL PARK

### §156. Establishment; boundaries
* When title to such lands as may be determined by the Secretary of the Interior as necessary for recreational park purposes within the boundaries to be determined by him within the area of approximately one million five hundred thousand acres, in the counties of Brewster and Presidio, in the State of Texas, known as the "Big Bend" area, shall have been vested in the United States, such lands shall be established, dedicated, and set apart as a public park for the benefit and enjoyment of the people and shall be known as the "Big Bend National Park": _Provided_, That the United States shall not purchase by appropriation of public moneys any land within the aforesaid area, but such lands shall be secured by the United States only by public and private donations.

### §157. Acquisition of lands
* The Secretary of the Interior is authorized, in his discretion and upon submission of evidence of title satisfactory to him, to accept, on behalf of the United States, title to the lands referred to in section 156 of this title as may be deemed by him necessary or desirable for national-park purposes: _Provided_, That no land for the Big Bend National Park shall be accepted until exclusive jurisdiction over the entire area, in form satisfactory to the Secretary of the Interior, shall have been ceded by the State of Texas to the United States.

### §157a. Additional lands; aggregate cost
* The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to acquire, in such manner as he shall consider to be in the public interest, any land or interests in land situated within sections 15, 22, 27, 34, block 234, Brewster County, Texas, which he shall consider to be suitable for addition to the Big Bend National Park: _Provided, however_, That the aggregate cost to the Federal Government of properties acquired hereafter and under the provisions hereof shall not exceed the sum of $10,000. Properties acquired pursuant to this section shall become a part of the park upon acquisition of title thereto by the United States.

### §157b. Additional lands within park boundaries
* Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to procure, in such manner as he may consider to be in the public interest, the remaining non-Federal land and interests in land within the boundaries of Big Bend National Park.

### §157c. Boundary revision; acquisition of lands and interests; authorization of appropriations
* The boundary of the Big Bend National Park in the State of Texas is hereby revised to include the lands and interests therein within the area generally depicted on the map entitled "Big Bend National Park, Boundary Additions", numbered 155/80,019–A and dated June 1980 which shall be on file and available for public inspection in the local and Washington, District of Columbia, Offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The Secretary is authorized to acquire the lands and interests therein added to the park by this section by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange, except that lands and interests therein owned by the State of Texas or any political subdivision thereof may be acquired only by donation or exchange. There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section, but not to exceed $1,500,000 for the acquisition of lands and interests therein.

### §157d. Additional boundary revision; acquisition of lands and interests
* The boundaries of Big Bend National Park, established by the Act of June 20, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 156), are hereby revised to include the lands and interests therein, together with all improvements thereon, within the area comprising approximately sixty-seven thousand one hundred and twenty-five acres as generally depicted on the map entitled "Harte Ranch Addition, Big Bend National Park", numbered 155/80,044 and dated September 1987. Such map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to acquire lands and interests therein, together with all improvements thereon, within the addition described in such map by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.

### §158. Administration, protection, and development
* The administration, protection, and development of the Big Bend National Park shall be exercised under the direction of the Secretary of the Interior by the National Park Service, subject to the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535), entitled "An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes", as amended: _Provided_, That the provisions of the Federal Power Act [16 U.S.C. 791a et seq.] shall not apply to this park.