### SUBCHAPTER VI—PROPERTY MANAGEMENT

### §781. Authority over the General Accounting Office Building
* (a) The Comptroller General shall have exclusive custody and control over the building located at 441 G Street, N.W., in the District of Columbia, that is generally known as the General Accounting Office Building, including operation, maintenance, protection, alteration, repair, and assignment of space therein. Such custody and control shall also extend to any machinery, equipment, spare parts and tools located in and usable for the operation and maintenance of the General Accounting Office Building. For the purposes of securing approval of any prospectus detailing proposed alterations of the General Accounting Office Building, as required by section 3307 of title 40, the Comptroller General shall perform the functions assigned to the Administrator of General Services by that section.

* (b) Upon request of the Comptroller General, the Administrator of General Services shall provide, to the extent resources are available, any necessary services for the protection of the property and persons in the General Accounting Office Building, including the provision of special police, responding to and investigating incidents, and the monitoring of the perimeter security system. Such services may be provided with or without reimbursement as the Comptroller General and the Administrator may agree.

* (c)(1) The Comptroller General is authorized to enter into agreements or contracts to acquire property or services on such terms and conditions and in such a manner as he deems necessary and without regard to section 6101(b) to (d) of title 41; except that the Comptroller General may not acquire real property unless specifically authorized by law. In exercising the authority granted by this section, the Comptroller General shall obtain full and open competition in accordance with the principles and purposes of the Competition in Contracting Act of 1984.

* (2) To the extent that funds are otherwise available for obligation, agreements or contracts for utility services may be made for periods not exceeding 10 years.

* (3) The Comptroller General may make advance, progress, and other payments which relate to agreements or contracts entered into under authority of this section, without regard to the provisions of section 3324(a) and (b) of this title.

### §782. Leasing of space in the General Accounting Office Building
* The Comptroller General is authorized to lease or otherwise provide space and services within the General Accounting Office Building to persons, both public and private, or to any department, agency or instrumentality of the United States Government upon such terms and conditions as the Comptroller General deems necessary to protect the public interest. The Comptroller General shall establish a rental rate for such leased space equivalent to the prevailing commercial rate for comparable space devoted to a similar purpose in the vicinity of the General Accounting Office Building. Additionally, the Comptroller General may make available, on occasion, or may lease at such rates and on such other terms and conditions as the Comptroller General deems to be in the public interest, auditoriums, meeting rooms, and lobbies of the General Accounting Office Building to persons, firms, or organizations engaged in cultural, educational, or recreational activities (as defined in section 3306(a) of title 40). The Comptroller General will consult with the Administrator of General Services and will give priority to Federal agencies in filling available space within the General Accounting Office Building. Payments for space or services may be made in advance or by way of reimbursement and shall be deposited to a special account and shall be available for expenditure for operation, maintenance, protection, alteration, or repair of the General Accounting Office Building in such amounts as are specified in annual appropriation Acts without regard to fiscal year limitations.

### §783. Rules and regulations
* (a) The Comptroller General is authorized to make all needful rules and regulations for the Government of the General Accounting Office Building, and to annex to such rules and regulations such reasonable penalties, within the limits prescribed in subsection (b), as will ensure their enforcement. Such rules and regulations shall be posted and kept posted in a conspicuous place on such Federal property.

* (b) Whoever shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to subsection (a) shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 6 months, or both.