### **CHAPTER 46—SURPLUS DISPOSAL OF AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES**

### §1854. Agreements limiting imports
* The President may, whenever he determines such action appropriate, negotiate with representatives of foreign governments in an effort to obtain agreements limiting the export from such countries and the importation into the United States of any agricultural commodity or product manufactured therefrom or textiles or textile products, and the President is authorized to issue regulations governing the entry or withdrawal from warehouse of any such commodity, product, textiles, or textile products to carry out any such agreement. In addition, if a multilateral agreement, including but not limited to the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing referred to in section 3511(d)(4) of title 19, has been or is concluded under the authority of this section among countries accounting for a significant part of world trade in the articles with respect to which the agreement was concluded, the President may also issue, in order to carry out such agreement, regulations governing the entry or withdrawal from warehouse of the same articles which are the products of countries not parties to the agreement, or countries to which the United States does not apply the agreement. Nothing herein shall affect the authority provided under section 624 of this title.

### §1855. Supplemental appropriations to encourage exportation and domestic consumption of agricultural products
* There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for each fiscal year, beginning with the fiscal year ending June 30, 1957, the sum of $500,000,000 to enable the Secretary of Agriculture to further carry out the provisions of section 612c of this title, subject to all provisions of law relating to the expenditure of funds appropriated by such section, except that up to 50 per centum of such $500,000,000 may be devoted during any fiscal year to any one agricultural commodity or the products thereof.

### §1856. Transfer of bartered materials to supplemental stockpile; limitation of acquisition to certain programs; authorization of appropriations
* (a) Strategic and other materials acquired by the Commodity Credit Corporation as a result of barter or exchange of agricultural commodities or products, unless acquired for the national stockpile established pursuant to the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act [50 U.S.C. 98 et seq.], or for other purposes shall be transferred to the supplemental stockpile established by section 1704(b) of this title; but no strategic or critical material shall be acquired by the Commodity Credit Corporation as a result of such barter or exchange except for such national stockpile, for such supplemental stockpile, for foreign economic or military aid or assistance programs, or for offshore construction programs, or to meet requirements of Government agencies.

* (b) Repealed. Pub. L. 87–456, title III, §303(c), May 24, 1962, 76 Stat. 78.

* (c) In order to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corporation for materials transferred to the supplemental stockpile there are hereby authorized to be appropriated amounts equal to the value of any materials so transferred. The value of any such material for the purpose of this subsection, shall be the lower of the domestic market price or the Commodity Credit Corporation's investment therein as of the date of such transfer as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture.

### §1859. Donation to penal and correctional institutions
* Notwithstanding any other limitations as to the disposal of surplus commodities acquired through price support operations, the Commodity Credit Corporation is authorized on such terms and under such regulations as the Secretary of Agriculture may deem in the public interest, and upon application, to donate food commodities acquired through price support operations to Federal penal and correctional institutions, and to State correctional institutions for minors, other than those in which food service is provided for inmates on a fee, contract, or concession basis.

### §1860. Federal irrigation, drainage, and flood-control projects
#### (a) Restriction on crop loans or farm payments or benefits
* For a period of three years from May 28, 1956, no agricultural commodity determined by the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with subsection (c) to be in surplus supply shall receive any crop loans or Federal farm payments or benefits if grown on any newly irrigated or drained lands within any Federal irrigation or drainage project hereafter authorized unless such lands were used for the production of such commodity prior to May 28, 1956.

#### (b) Contract provisions; ineligibility for benefits
* The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture shall cause to be included, in all irrigation, drainage, or flood-control contracts entered into with respect to Federal irrigation, drainage, or flood-control projects hereafter authorized, such provisions as they may deem necessary to provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this section. For a period of three years from May 28, 1956, surplus crops grown on lands reclaimed by flood-control projects hereafter authorized and the lands so reclaimed shall be ineligible for any benefits under the soil-bank provisions of this Act and under price support legislation.

#### (c) Determination and proclamation of surplus agricultural commodities
* On or before October 1 of each year, the Secretary of Agriculture shall determine and proclaim the agricultural commodities the supplies of which are in excess of estimated requirements for domestic consumption and export plus adequate reserves for emergencies. The commodities so proclaimed shall be considered to be in surplus supply for the purposes of this section during the succeeding crop year.

#### (d) "Federal irrigation or drainage project" defined
* For the purposes of this section the term "Federal irrigation or drainage project" means any irrigation or drainage project subject to the Federal reclamation laws (Act of June 17, 1902, 32 Stat. 388, and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto) in effect at the date of the adoption of this amendment and any irrigation or drainage project subject to the laws relating to irrigation and drainage administered by the Department of Agriculture or the Secretary of Agriculture.