### SUBPART I—MISCELLANEOUS

### §1383. Insurance of cotton; reconcentration
* (a) The Commodity Credit Corporation shall place all insurance of every nature taken out by it on cotton, and all renewals, extensions, or continuations of existing insurance, with insurance agents who are bonafide residents of and doing business in the State where the cotton is warehoused: _Provided_, That such insurance may be secured at a cost not greater than similar insurance offered on said cotton elsewhere.

* (b) Cotton held as security for any loan heretofore or hereafter made or arranged for by the Commodity Credit Corporation shall not hereafter be reconcentrated without the written consent of the producer or borrower.

### §1383a. Written consent for reconcentration of cotton
* In the administration of section 1383(b) of this title the written consent of the producer or borrower to the reconcentration of any cotton held as security for any loan heretofore or hereafter made or arranged for by the Commodity Credit Corporation shall not be deemed to have been given unless such consent shall have been given in an instrument made solely for that purpose. Notwithstanding any provision of any loan agreement heretofore made, no cotton held under any such agreement as security for any such loan shall be moved from one warehouse to another unless the written consent of the producer or borrower shall have been obtained in a separate instrument given solely for that purpose, as required by this section. The giving of written consent for the reconcentration of cotton shall not be made a condition upon the making of any loan hereafter made or arranged for by the Commodity Credit Corporation: _Provided, however_, That in cases where there is congestion and lack of storage facilities, and the local warehouse certifies such fact and requests the Commodity Credit Corporation to move the cotton for reconcentration to some other point, or when the Commodity Credit Corporation determines such loan cotton is improperly warehoused and subject to damage, or if uninsured, or if any of the terms of the loan agreement are violated, or if carrying charges are substantially in excess of the average of carrying charges available elsewhere, and the local warehouse, after notice, declines to reduce such charges, such written consent as provided in this section need not be obtained; and consent to movement under any of the conditions of this proviso may be required in future loan agreements.

### §1385. Finality of payments and loans; substitution of beneficiaries
* The facts constituting the basis for any chapter 3B of title 16 payment, any payment under the wheat, feed grain, upland cotton, extra long staple cotton, and rice programs authorized by chapter 35A of this title and this chapter, any loan, or price support operation, or the amount thereof, when officially determined in conformity with the applicable regulations prescribed by the Secretary or by the Commodity Credit Corporation, shall be final and conclusive and shall not be reviewable by any other officer or agency of the Government. In case any person who is entitled to any such payment dies, becomes incompetent, or disappears before receiving such payment, or is succeeded by another who renders or completes the required performance, the payment shall, without regard to any other provisions of law, be made as the Secretary of Agriculture may determine to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and provide by regulations. This section also shall be applicable to payments provided for under section 1348 of this title.

### §1386. Exemption from laws prohibiting interest of Members of Congress in contracts
* The provisions of section 6306 of title 41 and sections 431 and 432 of title 18 shall not be applicable to loans or payments made under this chapter (except under section 1383(a) of this title).

### §1387. Photographic reproductions and maps
* The Secretary may furnish reproductions of information such as geo-referenced data from all sources, aerial or other photographs, mosaics, and maps as have been obtained in connection with the authorized work of the Department to farmers and governmental agencies at the estimated cost of furnishing such reproductions, and to persons other than farmers at such prices as the Secretary may determine (but not less than the estimated costs of data processing, updating, revising, reformatting, repackaging and furnishing the reproductions and information), the money received from such sales to be deposited in the Treasury to the credit of the appropriation charged with the cost of making such reproductions. This section shall not affect the power of the Secretary to make other disposition of such or similar materials under any other provisions of existing law.

### §1388. Utilization of local agencies
#### (a) Designation of local agencies and local administrative areas
* The provisions of sections 590h(b) and 590k of title 16, relating to the utilization of State, county, local committees, the extension service, and other approved agencies, and to recognition and encouragement of cooperative associations, shall apply in the administration of this chapter; and the Secretary shall, for such purposes, utilize the same local, county, and State committees as are utilized under sections 590g, 590h, 590i, and 590j to 590q of title 16. The local administrative areas designated under section 590h(b) of title 16, for the administration of programs under chapter 3B of title 16, and the local administrative areas designated for the administration of this chapter shall be the same.

#### (b) Payments to county committees for administrative expenses
* (1) The Secretary is authorized and directed, from any funds made available for the purposes of this chapter and chapter 3B of title 16 in connection with which county committees are utilized, to make payments to county committees of farmers to cover the estimated administrative expenses incurred or to be incurred by them in cooperating in carrying out the provisions of this chapter and chapter 3B of title 16. All or part of such estimated administrative expenses of any such committee may be deducted pro rata from chapter 3B of title 16 payments, parity payments, or loans, or other payments under this chapter and chapter 3B of title 16, made unless payment of such expenses is otherwise provided by law. The Secretary may make such payments to such committees in advance of determination of performance by farmers.

* (2)(A) The Secretary shall provide compensation to members of such county committees (at not less than the level in effect on December 31, 1985 for county committees) for work actually performed by such persons in cooperating in carrying out this chapter and chapter 3B of title 16 in connection with which such committees are used.

* (B) The rate of compensation received by such persons for such work on December 23, 1985, shall be increased at the discretion of the Secretary.

#### (c) Travel expenses
* (1) The Secretary shall make payments to members of local, county, and State committees to cover expenses for travel incurred by such persons (including, in the case of a member of a local or county committee, travel between the home of such member and the local county office of the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service) in cooperating in carrying out this chapter and chapter 3B of title 16 in connection with which such Committees are used.

* (2) Such travel expenses shall be paid in the manner authorized under section 5703 of title 5 for the payment of expenses and allowances for individuals employed intermittently in the Federal Government service.

### §1389. Personnel
* The Secretary is authorized and directed to provide for the execution by the Agricultural Adjustment Administration of such of the powers conferred upon him by this chapter as he deems may be appropriately exercised by such Administration; and for such purposes the provisions of law applicable to appointment and compensation of persons employed by the Agricultural Adjustment Administration shall apply.

### §1390. Separability
* If any provision of this chapter, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of the chapter and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances, and the provisions of chapter 3B of title 16, shall not be affected thereby. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if any provision of this chapter should be held not to be within the power of the Congress to regulate interstate and foreign commerce, such provision shall not be held invalid if it is within the power of the Congress to provide for the general welfare or any other power of the Congress. If any provision of this chapter for marketing quotas with respect to any commodity should be held invalid, no provision of this chapter for marketing quotas with respect to any other commodity shall be affected thereby. If the application of any provision for a referendum should be held invalid, the application of other provisions shall not be affected thereby. If by reason of any provision for a referendum the application of any such other provision to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the application of such other provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.