### PART D—WHEAT MARKETING ALLOCATION

### §1379a. Legislative findings
* Wheat, in addition to being a basic food, is one of the great export crops of American agriculture and its production for domestic consumption and for export is necessary to the maintenance of a sound national economy and to the general welfare. The movement of wheat from producer to consumer, in the form of the commodity or any of the products thereof, is preponderantly in interstate and foreign commerce. Unreasonably low prices of wheat to producers impair their purchasing power for nonagriculture products and place them in a position of serious disparity with other industrial groups. The conditions affecting the production of wheat are such that without Federal assistance, producers cannot effectively prevent disastrously low prices for wheat. It is necessary, in order to assist wheat producers in obtaining fair prices, to regulate the price of wheat used for domestic food and for exports in the manner provided in this part.

### §1379b. Wheat marketing allocation; amount; national allocation percentage; commercial and noncommercial wheat-producing areas
* During any marketing year for which a marketing quota is in effect for wheat, beginning with the marketing year for the 1964 crop, a wheat marketing allocation program shall be in effect as provided in this part. Whenever a wheat marketing allocation program is in effect for any marketing year the Secretary shall determine (1) the wheat marketing allocation for such year which shall be the amount of wheat which in determining the national marketing quota for such marketing year he estimated would be used during such year for food products for consumption in the United States, and that portion of the amount of wheat which in determining such quota he estimated would be exported in the form of wheat or products thereof during the marketing year on which the Secretary determines that marketing certificates shall be issued to producers in order to achieve, insofar as practicable, the price and income objectives of this part, and (2) the national allocation percentage which shall be the percentage which the national marketing allocation is of the national marketing quota. Each farm shall receive a wheat marketing allocation for such marketing year equal to the number of bushels obtained by multiplying the number of acres in the farm acreage allotment for wheat by the projected farm yield, and multiplying the resulting number of bushels by the national allocation percentage. If a noncommercial wheat-producing area is established for any marketing year, farms in such area shall be given wheat marketing allocations which are determined by the Secretary to be fair and reasonable in relation to the wheat marketing allocation given producers in the commercial wheat-producing area.

### §1379c. Marketing certificates
#### (a) Issuance; amount; reduction; sharing among producers; domestic and export certificates
* The Secretary shall provide for the issuance of wheat marketing certificates for each marketing year for which a wheat marketing allocation program is in effect for the purpose of enabling producers on any farm with respect to which certificates are issued to receive, in addition to the other proceeds from the sale of wheat, an amount equal to the value of such certificates. The wheat marketing certificates issued with respect to any farm for any marketing year shall be in the amount of the farm wheat marketing allocation for such year, but not to exceed (i) the actual acreage of wheat planted on the farm for harvest in the calendar year in which the marketing year begins multiplied by the normal yield of wheat for the farm, plus (ii) the amount of wheat stored under subsection (b) or to avoid or postpone a marketing quota penalty, which is released from storage during the marketing year on account of underplanting or underproduction, and if this limitation operates to reduce the amount of wheat marketing certificates which would otherwise be issued with respect to the farm, such reduction shall be made first from the amount of export certificates which would otherwise be issued. The Secretary shall provide for the sharing of wheat marketing certificates among producers on the farm on the basis of their respective shares in the wheat crop produced on the farm, or the proceeds therefrom; except that in any case in which the Secretary determines that such basis would not be fair and equitable, the Secretary shall provide for such sharing on such other basis as he may determine to be fair and equitable. The Secretary shall, in accordance with such regulation as he may prescribe, provide for the issuance of domestic marketing certificates for the portion of the wheat marketing allocation representing wheat used for food products for consumption in the United States. The Secretary shall also provide for the issuance of export marketing certificates to eligible producers at the end of the marketing year on a pro rata basis. For such purposes, the value per bushel of export marketing certificates shall be an average of the total net proceeds from the sale of export marketing certificates during the marketing year after deducting the total amount of wheat export subsidies paid to exporters. An acreage on the farm which the Secretary finds was not planted to wheat for harvest in 1965 because of drought, flood, or other natural disaster shall be deemed by the Secretary to be an actual acreage of wheat planted for harvest for purposes of this subsection, provided such acreage is not subsequently planted to any other price supported crop for 1965. An acreage on the farm not planted to wheat because of drought, flood, or other natural disaster shall be deemed to be an actual acreage of wheat planted for harvest for purposes of this subsection provided such acreage is not subsequently planted to any crop for which there are marketing quotas or voluntary adjustment programs in effect. Producers on any farm who have planted not less than 90 per centum of the acreage of wheat required to be planted in order to earn the full amount of marketing certificates for which the farm is eligible shall be deemed to have planted the entire acreage required to be planted for that purpose.

#### (b) Producers eligible for certificates; storage conditions
* No producer shall be eligible to receive wheat marketing certificates with respect to any farm for any marketing year in which a marketing quota penalty is assessed for any commodity on such farm or in which the farm has not complied with the land-use requirements of section 1339 of this title to the extent prescribed by the Secretary, or in which, except as the Secretary may by regulation prescribe, the producer exceeds the farm acreage allotment on any other farm for any commodity in which he has an interest as a producer. No producer shall be deemed to have exceeded a farm acreage allotment for wheat if the entire amount of the farm marketing excess is delivered to the Secretary or stored in accordance with applicable regulations to avoid or postpone payment of the penalty. No producer shall be deemed to have exceeded the farm acreage allotment for wheat on any other farm if such farm is exempt from the farm marketing quota for such crop under section 1335 of this title. Any wheat delivered to the Secretary hereunder shall become the property of the United States and shall be disposed of by the Secretary for relief purposes in the United States or in foreign countries or in such other manner as he shall determine will divert it from the normal channels of trade and commerce. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Secretary may provide that a producer shall not be eligible to receive marketing certificates, or may adjust the amount of marketing certificates to be received by the producer, with respect to any farm for any year in which a variety of wheat is planted on the farm which has been determined by the Secretary, after consultation with State Agricultural Experiment Stations, agronomists, cereal chemists and other qualified technicians, to have undesirable milling or baking qualities and has made public announcement thereof.

#### (c) Face value
* The Secretary shall determine and proclaim for each marketing year the face value per bushel of wheat marketing certificates. The face value per bushel of domestic certificates shall be the amount by which the level of price support for wheat accompanied by domestic certificates exceeds the level of price support for wheat not accompanied by certificates (noncertificate wheat).

#### (d) Statement or form of certificates and transfers
* Marketing certificates and transfers thereof shall be represented by such documents, marketing cards, records, accounts, certifications, or other statements or forms as the Secretary may prescribe.

#### (e) Failure of producer to comply with programs; issuance of certificates
* In any case in which the failure of a producer to comply fully with the term and conditions of the programs formulated under this chapter preclude the issuance of marketing certificates, the Secretary may, nevertheless, issue such certificates in such amounts as he determines to be equitable in relation to the seriousness of the default.

### §1379d. Marketing restrictions
#### (a) Transfers of certificates; purchases by Commodity Credit Corporation
* Marketing certificates shall be transferable only in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary. Any unused certificates legally held by any person shall be purchased by Commodity Credit Corporation if tendered to the Corporation for purchase in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary.

#### (b) Processor and exporter acquisition of domestic and export certificates; international trade, expansion; refunds or credits for certificates; exemptions from requirements
* During any marketing year for which a wheat marketing allocation program is in effect, (i) all persons engaged in the processing of wheat into food products shall, prior to marketing any such food product or removing such food product for sale or consumption, acquire domestic marketing certificates equivalent to the number of bushels of wheat contained in such product and (ii) all persons exporting wheat shall, prior to such export, acquire export marketing certificates equivalent to the number of bushels so exported. The cost of the export marketing certificates per bushel to the exporter shall be that amount determined by the Secretary on a daily basis which would make United States wheat and wheat flour generally competitive in the world market, avoid disruption of world market prices, and fulfill the international obligations of the United States. The Secretary may exempt from the requirements of this subsection wheat exported for donation abroad and other noncommercial exports of wheat, wheat processed for use on the farm where grown, wheat produced by a State or agency thereof and processed for use by the State or agency thereof, wheat processed for donation, and wheat processed for uses determined by the Secretary to be noncommercial. Such exemptions may be made applicable with respect to any wheat processed or exported beginning July 1, 1964. There shall be exempt from the requirements of this subsection beverage distilled from wheat prior to July 1, 1964. A beverage distilled from wheat after July 1, 1964, shall be deemed to be removed for sale or consumption at the time it is placed in barrels for aging except that upon the giving of a bond as prescribed by the Secretary, the purchase of and payment for such marketing certificates as may be required may be deferred until such beverage is bottled for sale. Wheat shipped to a Canadian port for storage in bond, or storage under a similar arrangement, and subsequent exportation, shall be deemed to have been exported for purposes of this subsection when it is exported from the Canadian port. Marketing certificates shall be valid to cover only sales or removals for sale or consumption or exportations made during the marketing year with respect to which they are issued, and after being once used to cover a sale or removal for sale or consumption or export of a food product or an export of wheat shall be void and shall be disposed of in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions hereof, the Secretary may require marketing certificates issued for any marketing year to be acquired to cover sales, removals, or exportations made on or after the date during the calendar year in which wheat harvested in such calendar year begins to be marketed as determined by the Secretary even though such wheat is marketed prior to the beginning of the marketing year, and marketing certificates for such marketing year shall be valid to cover sales, removals, or exportations made on or after the date so determined by the Secretary. Whenever the face value per bushel of domestic marketing certificates for a marketing year is different from the face value of domestic marketing certificates for the preceding marketing year, the Secretary may require marketing certificates issued for the preceding marketing year to be acquired to cover all wheat processed into food products during such preceding marketing year even though the food product may be marketed or removed for sale or consumption after the end of the marketing year.

#### (c) Undertaking to secure marketing of commodity without certificate
* Upon the giving of a bond or other undertaking satisfactory to the Secretary to secure the purchase of and payment for such marketing certificates as may be required, and subject to such regulations as he may prescribe, any person required to have marketing certificates in order to market or export a commodity may be permitted to market any such commodity without having first acquired marketing certificates.

#### (d) "Food products" defined; exemption of flour second clears
* As used in this part, the term "food products" means flour (excluding flour second clears not used for human consumption as determined by the Secretary), semolina, farina, bulgur, beverage, and any other product composed wholly or partly of wheat which the Secretary may determine to be a food product. The Secretary may at his election administer the exemption for wheat processed into flour second clears through refunds either to processors of such wheat or to the users of such clears. For the purpose of such refunds, the wheat equivalent of flour second clears may be determined on the basis of conversion factors authorized by section 1379f of this title, even though certificates had been surrendered on the basis of the weight of the wheat.

### §1379e. Assistance in purchase and sale of marketing certificates; regulations; administrative expenses; interest
* For the purpose of facilitating the purchase and sale of marketing certificates, the Commodity Credit Corporation is authorized to issue, buy, and sell marketing certificates in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary. Such regulations may authorize the Corporation to issue and sell certificates in excess of the quantity of certificates which it purchases. Such regulations may authorize the Corporation in the sale of marketing certificates to charge, in addition to the face value thereof, an amount determined by the Secretary to be appropriate to cover estimated administrative costs in connection with the purchase and sale of the certificates and estimated interest incurred on funds of the Corporation invested in certificates purchased by it.

### §1379f. Conversion factors
* The Secretary shall establish conversion factors which shall be used to determine the amount of wheat contained in any food product. The conversion factor for any such food product shall be determined upon the basis of the weight of wheat used in the manufacture of such product.

### §1379g. Authority to facilitate transition
* (a) The Secretary is authorized to take such action as he determines to be necessary to facilitate the transition from the program currently in effect to the program provided for in this part. Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, such authority shall include, but shall not be limited to, the authority to exempt all or a portion of the wheat or food products made therefrom in the channels of trade on the effective date of the program under this part from the marketing restrictions in subsection (b) of section 1379d of this title, or to sell certificates to persons owning such wheat or food products at such prices as the Secretary may determine. Any such certificate shall be issued by Commodity Credit Corporation.

* (b) Whenever the face value per bushel of domestic marketing certificates for a marketing year is substantially different from the face value of domestic marketing certificates for the preceding marketing year, the Secretary is authorized to take such action as he determines necessary to facilitate the transition between marketing years. Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, such authority shall include, but shall not be limited to, the authority to sell certificates to persons engaged in the processing of wheat into food products covering such quantities of wheat, at such prices, and under such terms and conditions as the Secretary may by regulation provide. Any such certificate shall be issued by Commodity Credit Corporation.

* (c) The Secretary is authorized to take such action as he determines to be necessary to facilitate the transition from the certificate program provided for under section 1379d of this title to a program under which no certificates are required. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, such authority shall include, but shall not be limited to the authority to exempt all or a portion of wheat or food products made therefrom in the channels of trade on July 1, 1973, from the marketing restrictions in subsection (b) of section 1379d of this title, or to sell certificates to persons owning such wheat or food products made therefrom at such price and under such terms and conditions as the Secretary may determine. Any such certificate shall be issued by the Commodity Credit Corporation. Nothing herein shall authorize the Secretary to require certificates on wheat processed after June 30, 1973.

### §1379h. Applicability of provisions to designated persons; reports and records; examinations by the Secretary
* This section shall apply to processors of wheat, warehousemen and exporters of wheat and food products, and all persons purchasing, selling, or otherwise dealing in wheat marketing certificates. Any such person shall, from time to time on request of the Secretary, report to the Secretary such information and keep such records as the Secretary finds to be necessary to enable him to carry out the provisions of this part. Such information shall be reported and such records shall be kept in such manner as the Secretary shall prescribe. For the purpose of ascertaining the correctness of any report made or record kept, or of obtaining information required to be furnished in any report, but not so furnished, the Secretary is authorized to examine such books, papers, records, accounts, correspondence, contracts, documents, and memorandums as he has reason to believe are relevant and are within the control of such person.

### §1379i. Penalties
#### (a) Forfeitures; amount; civil action
* Any person who knowingly violates or attempts to violate or who knowingly participates or aids in the violation of any of the provisions of subsection (b) of section 1379d of this title shall forfeit to the United States a sum equal to two times the face value of the marketing certificates involved in such violation. Such forfeiture shall be recoverable in a civil action brought in the name of the United States.

#### (b) Misdemeanors; punishment
* Any person, except a producer in his capacity as a producer, who knowingly violates or attempts to violate or who knowingly participates or aids in the violation of any provision of this part, or of any regulation, governing the acquisition, disposition, or handling of marketing certificates or who knowingly fails to make any report or keep any record as required by section 1379h of this title shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a fine of not more than $5,000 for each violation.

#### (c) Forfeiture of right to receive certificates; payment of face value
* Any person who, in his capacity as a producer, knowingly violates or attempts to violate or participates or aids in the violation of any provision of this part, or of any regulation, governing the acquisition, disposition, or handling of marketing certificates or fails to make any report or keep any record as required by section 1379h of this title shall, (i) forfeit any right to receive marketing certificates, in whole or in part as the Secretary may determine, with respect to the farm or farms and for the marketing year with respect to which any such act or default is committed, or (ii), if such marketing certificates have already been issued, pay to the Secretary, upon demand, the amount of the face value of such certificates, or such part thereof as the Secretary may determine. Such determination by the Secretary with respect to the amount of such marketing certificates to be forfeited or the amount to be paid by such producer shall take into consideration the circumstances relating to the act or default committed and the seriousness of such act or default.

#### (d) Felonies; punishment
* Any person who falsely makes, issues, alters, forges, or counterfeits any marketing certificate, or with fraudulent intent possesses, transfers, or uses any such falsely made, issued, altered, forged, or counterfeited marketing certificate, shall be deemed guilty of a felony and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a fine of not more than $10,000 or imprisonment of not more than ten years, or both.

### §1379j. Regulations
* The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this part including but not limited to regulations governing the acquisition, disposition, or handling of marketing certificates.