### SUBCHAPTER III—PHOSPHATES

### §211. Phosphate deposits
#### (a) Authorization to lease land; terms and conditions; acreage
* The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to lease to any applicant qualified under this chapter, through advertisement, competitive bidding, or such other methods as he may by general regulations adopt, any phosphate deposits of the United States, and lands containing such deposits, including associated and related minerals, when in his judgment the public interest will be best served thereby. The lands shall be leased under such terms and conditions as are herein specified, in units reasonably compact in form of not to exceed two thousand five hundred and sixty acres.

#### (b) Prospecting permits; issuance; term; acreage; entitlement to lease
* Where prospecting or exploratory work is necessary to determine the existence or workability of phosphate deposits in any unclaimed, undeveloped area, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to issue, to any applicant qualified under this chapter, a prospecting permit which shall give the exclusive right to prospect for phosphate deposits, including associated minerals, for a period of two years, for not more than two thousand five hundred and sixty acres; and if prior to the expiration of the permit the permittee shows to the Secretary that valuable deposits of phosphate have been discovered within the area covered by his permit, the permittee shall be entitled to a lease for any or all of the land embraced in the prospecting permit.

#### (c) Extension of term of permit
* Any phosphate permit issued under this section may be extended by the Secretary for such an additional period, not in excess of four years, as he deems advisable, if he finds that the permittee has been unable, with reasonable diligence, to determine the existence or workability of phosphate deposits in the area covered by the permit and desires to prosecute further prospecting or exploration, or for other reasons warranting such an extension in the opinion of the Secretary.

### §212. Surveys; royalties; time payable; annual rentals; term of leases; readjustment on renewals; minimum production; suspension of operation
* Each lease shall describe the leased lands by the legal subdivisions of the public-land surveys. All leases shall be conditioned upon the payment to the United States of such royalties as may be specified in the lease, which shall be fixed by the Secretary of the Interior in advance of offering the same, at not less than 5 per centum of the gross value of the output of phosphates or phosphate rock and associated or related minerals. Royalties shall be due and payable as specified in the lease either monthly or quarterly on the last day of the month next following the month or quarter in which the minerals are sold or removed from the leased land. Each lease shall provide for the payment of a rental payable at the date of the lease and annually thereafter which shall be not less than 25 cents per acre for the first year, 50 cents per acre for the second and third years, respectively, and $1 per acre for each year thereafter, during the continuance of the lease. The rental paid for any year shall be credited against the royalties for that year. Leases shall be for a term of twenty years and so long thereafter as the lessee complies with the terms and conditions of the lease and upon the further condition that at the end of each twenty-year period succeeding the date of the lease such reasonable readjustment of the terms and conditions thereof may be made therein as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior unless otherwise provided by law at the expiration of such periods. Leases shall be conditioned upon a minimum annual production or the payment of a minimum royalty in lieu thereof, except when production is interrupted by strikes, the elements, or casualties not attributable to the lessee. The Secretary of the Interior may permit suspension of operations under any such leases when marketing conditions are such that the leases cannot be operated except at a loss.

### §213. Royalties for use of deposits of silica, limestone, or other rock embraced in lease
* Any lease to develop and extract phosphates, phosphate rock, and associated or related minerals under the provisions of sections 211 to 214 of this title shall provide that the lessee may use so much of any deposit of silica or limestone or other rock situated on any public lands embraced in the lease as may be utilized in the processing or refining of the phosphates, phosphate rock, and associated or related minerals mined from the leased lands or from other lands upon payments of such royalty as may be determined by the Secretary of the Interior, which royalty may be stated in the lease or, as to the leases already issued, may be provided for in an attachment to the lease to be duly executed by the lessor and the lessee.

### §214. Use of surface of other public lands; acreage; forest lands exception
* The holder of any lease or permit issued under the provisions of sections 211 to 214 of this title shall have the right to use so much of the surface of unappropriated and unentered public lands not a part of his lease or permit, not exceeding eighty acres in area, as may be determined by the Secretary to be necessary or convenient for the extraction, treatment, and removal of the mineral deposits, but this provision shall not be applicable to national forest lands.