### SUBCHAPTER LIX–E—BISCAYNE NATIONAL PARK

### §410gg. Establishment; description of boundary; minor boundary revisions; publication in Federal Register
* In order to preserve and protect for the education, inspiration, recreation, and enjoyment of present and future generations a rare combination of terrestrial, marine, and amphibious life in a tropical setting of great natural beauty, there is hereby established the Biscayne National Park (hereinafter referred to in this subchapter as the "park") in the State of Florida. The boundary of the park shall include the lands, waters, and interests therein as generally depicted on the map entitled "Boundary Map, Biscayne National Park", numbered 169–90,003, and dated April 1980, which map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the "Secretary") shall publish in the Federal Register, not more than one year after June 28, 1980, a detailed description of the boundary established pursuant to this section. Following reasonable notice in writing to the Committee on Natural Resources of the United States House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate of his intention to do so, the Secretary may make minor revisions in the boundary of the park by publication of a revised boundary map or other description in the Federal Register.

### §410gg–1. Acquisition of property
#### (a) Authority of Secretary; manner; State lands: donation, reservations, and restrictions; Federal lands: transfer to administrative jurisdiction of National Park Service and Secretary
* Within the boundary of the park the Secretary is authorized to acquire lands, waters, and interests therein by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange, except that property owned by the State of Florida or any political subdivision thereof may be acquired only by donation, and subject to such reservations and restrictions as may be provided by Florida law. Lands, waters, and interests therein within such boundary which are owned by the United States and under the control of the Secretary are hereby transferred to the administrative jurisdiction of the National Park Service to be managed for the purposes of the park. Any federally owned lands within the park which are not under the control of the Secretary shall be transferred to his control for purposes of the park at such time as said lands cease to be needed by the agencies which currently control them.

#### (b) Acquisition period; consideration by Secretary of prompt acquisition of property
* It is the express intent of the Congress that the Secretary shall substantially complete the land acquisition program authorized herein within three complete fiscal years from the effective date of this subchapter. Any owner of property within the park may notify the Secretary of the desire of such owner that his property be promptly acquired, and the Secretary shall give immediate and careful consideration, subject to the availability of funds, to the prompt acquisition of such property.

### §410gg–2. Administration; fishing; abolition of Biscayne National Monument; monument incorporated within and made part of park; monument funds and appropriations available for park
* (a) The Secretary shall preserve and administer the park in accordance with the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1–4), as amended and supplemented. The waters within the park shall continue to be open to fishing in conformity with the laws of the State of Florida except as the Secretary, after consultation with appropriate officials of said State, designates species for which, areas and times within which, and methods by which fishing is prohibited, limited, or otherwise regulated in the interest of sound conservation to achieve the purposes for which the park is established: _Provided_, That with respect to lands donated by the State after the effective date of this subchapter, fishing shall be in conformance with State law.

* (b) The Biscayne National Monument, as authorized by the Act of October 18, 1968 (82 Stat. 1188; 16 U.S.C. 450qq), as amended, is abolished as such, and all lands, waters, and interests therein acquired or reserved for such monument are hereby incorporated within and made a part of the park. Any funds available for the purposes of such monument are hereby made available for the purposes of the park, and authorizations of funds for the monument shall continue to be available for the park.

### §410gg–3. Report as to suitability for designation as wilderness area; compliance with procedure for such designation
* Within three complete fiscal years from the effective date of this subchapter, the Secretary shall review the area within the park and shall report to the President and the Congress, in accordance with section 1132(c) and (d) of this title, his recommendations as to the suitability or nonsuitability of any area within the park for designation as wilderness. Any designation of any such areas as wilderness shall be accomplished in accordance with said section 1132(c) and (d).

### §410gg–4. Revised comprehensive general management plan; submission to Congressional committees
* Within two complete fiscal years from the effective date of this subchapter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate, a revised comprehensive general management plan for the park consistent with the provisions of this subchapter and pursuant to the provisions of section 100502 of title 54.

### §410gg–5. Authorization of appropriations; entrance or admission fees prohibition
* In addition to the sums previously authorized to be appropriated for Biscayne National Monument, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for the administration of the park, and not to exceed $8,500,000 for the acquisition of lands and interests therein, as provided in this subchapter. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no fees shall be charged for entrance or admission to the park.