### §1395s. Payment of premiums
#### (a) Deductions from section 402 or 423 monthly benefits
* (1) In the case of an individual who is entitled to monthly benefits under section 402 or 423 of this title, his monthly premiums under this part shall (except as provided in subsections (b)(1) and (c)) be collected by deducting the amount thereof from the amount of such monthly benefits. Such deduction shall be made in such manner and at such times as the Commissioner of Social Security shall by regulation prescribe. Such regulations shall be prescribed after consultation with the Secretary.

* (2) The Secretary of the Treasury shall, from time to time, transfer from the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund or the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund to the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund the aggregate amount deducted under paragraph (1) for the period to which such transfer relates from benefits under section 402 or 423 of this title which are payable from such Trust Fund. Such transfer shall be made on the basis of a certification by the Commissioner of Social Security and shall be appropriately adjusted to the extent that prior transfers were too great or too small.

#### (b) Deductions from railroad retirement annuities or pensions
* (1) In the case of an individual who is entitled to receive for a month an annuity under the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974 [45 U.S.C. 231 et seq.] (whether or not such individual is also entitled for such month to a monthly insurance benefit under section 402 of this title), his monthly premiums under this part shall (except as provided in subsection (c)) be collected by deducting the amount thereof from such annuity or pension. Such deduction shall be made in such manner and at such times as the Secretary shall by regulations prescribe. Such regulations shall be prescribed only after consultation with the Railroad Retirement Board.

* (2) The Secretary of the Treasury shall, from time to time, transfer from the Railroad Retirement Account to the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund the aggregate amount deducted under paragraph (1) for the period to which such transfer relates. Such transfers shall be made on the basis of a certification by the Railroad Retirement Board and shall be appropriately adjusted to the extent that prior transfers were too great or too small.

#### (c) Portion of monthly premium in excess of deducted amount
* If an individual to whom subsection (a) or (b) applies estimates that the amount which will be available for deduction under such subsection for any premium payment period will be less than the amount of the monthly premiums for such period, he may (under regulations) pay to the Secretary such portion of the monthly premiums for such period as he desires.

#### (d) Deductions from civil service retirement annuities
* (1) In the case of an individual receiving an annuity under subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5 or any other law administered by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management providing retirement or survivorship protection, to whom neither subsection (a) nor subsection (b) applies, his monthly premiums under this part (and the monthly premiums of the spouse of such individual under this part if neither subsection (a) nor subsection (b) applies to such spouse and if such individual agrees) shall, upon notice from the Secretary of Health and Human Services to the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, be collected by deducting the amount thereof from each installment of such annuity. Such deduction shall be made in such manner and at such times as the Director of the Office of Personnel Management may determine. The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall furnish such information as the Secretary of Health and Human Services may reasonably request in order to carry out his functions under this part with respect to individuals to whom this subsection applies. A plan described in section 8903 or 8903a of title 5 may reimburse each annuitant enrolled in such plan an amount equal to the premiums paid by him under this part if such reimbursement is paid entirely from funds of such plan which are derived from sources other than the contributions described in section 8906 of such title.

* (2) The Secretary of the Treasury shall, from time to time, but not less often than quarterly, transfer from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund, or the account (if any) applicable in the case of such other law administered by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, to the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund the aggregate amount deducted under paragraph (1) for the period to which such transfer relates. Such transfer shall be made on the basis of a certification by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management and shall be appropriately adjusted to the extent that prior transfers were too great or too small.

#### (e) Manner and time of payment prescribed by Secretary
* In the case of an individual who participates in the insurance program established by this part but with respect to whom none of the preceding provisions of this section applies, or with respect to whom subsection (c) applies, the premiums shall be paid to the Secretary at such times, and in such manner, as the Secretary shall by regulations prescribe.

#### (f) Deposit of amounts in Treasury
* Amounts paid to the Secretary under subsection (c) or (e) shall be deposited in the Treasury to the credit of the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund.

#### (g) Premium payability period
* In the case of an individual who participates in the insurance program established by this part, premiums shall be payable for the period commencing with the first month of his coverage period and ending with the month in which he dies or, if earlier, in which his coverage under such program terminates.

#### (h) Exempted monthly benefits
* In the case of an individual who is enrolled under the program established by this part as a member of a coverage group to which an agreement with a State entered into pursuant to section 1395v of this title is applicable, subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section shall not apply to his monthly premium for any month in his coverage period which is determined under section 1395v(d) of this title.

#### (i) Adjustments for individuals enrolled in Medicare+Choice plans
* In the case of an individual enrolled in a Medicare+Choice plan, the Secretary shall provide for necessary adjustments of the monthly beneficiary premium to reflect 80 percent of any reduction elected under section 1395w–24(f)(1)(E) of this title and to reflect any credit provided under section 1395w–24(b)(1)(C)(iv) of this title. To the extent to which the Secretary determines that such an adjustment is appropriate, with the concurrence of any agency responsible for the administration of such benefits, such premium adjustment may be provided directly, as an adjustment to any social security, railroad retirement, or civil service retirement benefits, or, in the case of an individual who receives medical assistance under subchapter XIX for medicare costs described in section 1396d(p)(3)(A)(ii) of this title, as an adjustment to the amount otherwise owed by the State for such medical assistance.