### ยง1081. Insurance fund
#### (a) Establishment
* There is hereby established a student loan insurance fund (hereinafter in this section called the "fund") which shall be available without fiscal year limitation to the Secretary for making payments in connection with the default of loans insured by the Secretary under this part, or in connection with payments under a guaranty agreement under section 1078(c) of this title. All amounts received by the Secretary as premium charges for insurance and as receipts, earnings, or proceeds derived from any claim or other assets acquired by the Secretary in connection with operations under this part, any excess advances under section 1072 of this title, and any other moneys, property, or assets derived by the Secretary from operations in connection with this section, shall be deposited in the fund. All payments in connection with the default of loans insured by the Secretary under this part, or in connection with such guaranty agreements shall be paid from the fund. Moneys in the fund not needed for current operations under this section may be invested in bonds or other obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States.

#### (b) Borrowing authority
* If at any time the moneys in the fund are insufficient to make payments in connection with the default of any loan insured by the Secretary under this part, or in connection with any guaranty agreement made under section 1078(c) of this title, the Secretary is authorized, to the extent provided in advance by appropriations Acts, to issue to the Secretary of the Treasury notes or other obligations in such forms and denominations, bearing such maturities, and subject to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Secretary with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury. Such notes or other obligations shall bear interest at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration the current average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities during the month preceding the issuance of the notes or other obligations. The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to purchase any notes and other obligations issued hereunder and for that purpose is authorized to use as a public debt transaction the proceeds from the sale of any securities issued under chapter 31 of title 31, and the purposes for which securities may be issued under that chapter, are extended to include any purchase of such notes and obligations. The Secretary of the Treasury may at any time sell any of the notes or other obligations acquired under this subsection. All redemptions, purchases, and sales by the Secretary of the Treasury of such notes or other obligations shall be treated as public debt transactions of the United States. Sums borrowed under the subsection shall be deposited in the fund and redemption of such notes and obligations shall be made by the Secretary from such fund.