### SUBCHAPTER II—PERSONNEL

### §4821. Diplomatic Security Service
* The Secretary of State may establish a Diplomatic Security Service, which shall perform such functions as the Secretary may determine.

### §4822. Director of Diplomatic Security Service
* Any such Diplomatic Security Service should be headed by a Director designated by the Secretary of State. The Director should be a career member of the Senior Foreign Service or the Senior Executive Service and should be qualified for the position by virtue of demonstrated ability in the areas of security, law enforcement, management, and public administration. Experience in management or operations abroad should be considered an affirmative factor in the selection of the Director.

### §4823. Special agents
* Special agent positions shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3901 et seq.) and title 5. In filling such positions, the Secretary of State shall actively recruit women and members of minority groups. The Secretary of State shall prescribe the qualifications required for assignment or appointment to such positions. The qualifications may include minimum and maximum entry age restrictions and other physical standards and shall incorporate such standards as may be required by law in order to perform security functions, to bear arms, and to exercise investigatory, warrant, arrest, and such other authorities as are available by law to special agents of the Department of State and the Foreign Service.

### §4824. Contracting authority
* The Secretary of State is authorized to employ individuals or organizations by contract to carry out the purposes of this Act, and individuals employed by contract to perform such services shall not by virtue of such employment be considered to be employees of the United States Government for purposes of any law administered by the Office of Personnel Management (except that the Secretary may determine the applicability to such individuals of any law administered by the Secretary concerning the employment of such individuals); and such contracts are authorized to be negotiated, the terms of the contracts to be prescribed, and the work to be performed, where necessary, without regard to such statutory provisions as relate to the negotiation, making and performance of contracts and performance of work in the United States.