### SUBCHAPTER II—INVESTIGATIONS AND PLANNING

### §1511. Reconnaissance investigations by Secretary of the Interior; reports; 10-year moratorium on water importation studies
* Pursuant to the authority set out in the Reclamation Act of June 17, 1902, 32 Stat. 388, and Acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto, and the provisions of the Water Resources Planning Act of July 22, 1965, 79 Stat. 244, as amended [42 U.S.C. 1962 et seq.], with respect to the coordination of studies, investigations and assessments, the Secretary of the Interior shall conduct full and complete reconnaissance investigations for the purpose of developing a general plan to meet the future water needs of the Western United States. Such investigations shall include the long-range water supply available and the long-range water requirements in each water resource region of the Western United States. Progress reports in connection with these investigations shall be submitted to the President, the National Water Commission (while it is in existence), the Water Resources Council, and to the Congress every two years. The first of such reports shall be submitted on or before June 30, 1971, and a final reconnaissance report shall be submitted not later than June 30, 1977: _Provided_, That for a period of ten years from November 2, 1978, any Federal official shall not undertake reconnaissance studies of any plan for the importation of water into the Colorado River Basin from any other natural river drainage basin lying outside the States of Arizona, California, Colorado, New Mexico, and those portions of Nevada, Utah, and Wyoming which are in the natural drainage basin of the Colorado River.

### §1511a. Cooperation and participation by Secretary of the Army with Federal, State, and local agencies
* The Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is authorized to cooperate and participate with concerned Federal, State, and local agencies in preparing the general plan for the development of the water resources of the western United States authorized by the Colorado River Basin Project Act [43 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.].

### §1512. Mexican Water Treaty
* The Congress declares that the satisfaction of the requirements of the Mexican Water Treaty from the Colorado River constitutes a national obligation which shall be the first obligation of any water augmentation project planned pursuant to section 1511 of this title and authorized by the Congress. Accordingly, the States of the Upper Division (Colorado, New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming) and the States of the Lower Division (Arizona, California, and Nevada) shall be relieved from all obligations which may have been imposed upon them by article III(c) of the Colorado River Compact so long as the Secretary shall determine and proclaim that means are available and in operation which augment the water supply of the Colorado River system in such quantity as to satisfy the requirements of the Mexican Water Treaty together with any losses of water associated with the performance of that treaty: _Provided_, That the satisfaction of the requirements of the Mexican Water Treaty (Treaty Series 994, 59 Stat. 1219), shall be from the waters of the Colorado River pursuant to the treaties, laws, and compacts presently relating thereto, until such time as a feasibility plan showing the most economical means of augmenting the water supply available in the Colorado River below Lee Ferry by two and one-half million acre-feet shall be authorized by the Congress and is in operation as provided in this chapter.

### §1513. Importation of water; protection of exporting areas
* (a) In the event that the Secretary shall, pursuant to section 1511 of this title, plan works to import water into the Colorado River system from sources outside the natural drainage areas of the system, he shall make provision for adequate and equitable protection of the interests of the States and areas of origin, including assistance from funds specified in this chapter, to the end that water supplies may be available for use in such States and areas of origin adequate to satisfy their ultimate requirements at prices to users not adversely affected by the exportation of water to the Colorado River system.

* (b) All requirements, present or future, for water within any State lying wholly or in part within the drainage area of any river basin from which water is exported by works planned pursuant to this chapter shall have a priority of right in perpetuity to the use of the waters of that river basin, for all purposes, as against the uses of the water delivered by means of such exportation works, unless otherwise provided by interstate agreement.

### §1514. Authorization of appropriations
* There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are required to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.