### SUBCHAPTER I—DISPOSAL OF MATERIALS ON PUBLIC LANDS

### §601. Rules and regulations governing disposal of materials; payment; removal without charge; lands excluded
* The Secretary, under such rules and regulations as he may prescribe, may dispose of mineral materials (including but not limited to common varieties of the following: sand, stone, gravel, pumice, pumicite, cinders, and clay) and vegetative materials (including but not limited to yucca, manzanita, mesquite, cactus, and timber or other forest products) on public lands of the United States, including, for the purposes of this subchapter, land described in subchapter V of chapter 28 of title 43, if the disposal of such mineral or vegetative materials (1) is not otherwise expressly authorized by law, including, but not limited to, subchapter I of chapter 8A of title 43, and the United States mining laws, and (2) is not expressly prohibited by laws of the United States, and (3) would not be detrimental to the public interest. Such materials may be disposed of only in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and upon the payment of adequate compensation therefor, to be determined by the Secretary: _Provided, however_, That, to the extent not otherwise authorized by law, the Secretary is authorized in his discretion to permit any Federal, State, or Territorial agency, unit or subdivision, including municipalities, or any association or corporation not organized for profit, to take and remove, without charge, materials and resources subject to this subchapter, for use other than for commercial or industrial purposes or resale. Where the lands have been withdrawn in aid of a function of a Federal department or agency other than the department headed by the Secretary or of a State, Territory, county, municipality, water district or other local governmental subdivision or agency, the Secretary may make disposals under this subchapter only with the consent of such other Federal department or agency or of such State, Territory, or local governmental unit. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to apply to lands in any national park, or national monument or to any Indian lands, or lands set aside or held for the use or benefit of Indians, including lands over which jurisdiction has been transferred to the Department of the Interior by Executive order for the use of Indians. As used in this subchapter, the word "Secretary" means the Secretary of the Interior except that it means the Secretary of Agriculture where the lands involved are administered by him for national forest purposes or for the purposes of title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act [7 U.S.C. 1010 et seq.] or where withdrawn for the purpose of any other function of the Department of Agriculture.

### §602. Bidding; advertising and other notice; conditions for negotiation of contract
* (a) The Secretary shall dispose of materials under this subchapter to the highest responsible qualified bidder after formal advertising and such other public notice as he deems appropriate: _Provided, however_, That the Secretary may authorize negotiation of a contract for the disposal of materials if—

  * (1) the contract is for the sale of less than two hundred fifty thousand board-feet of timber; or, if

  * (2) the contract is for the disposal of materials to be used in connection with a public works improvement program on behalf of a Federal, State or local governmental agency and the public exigency will not permit the delay incident to advertising; or, if

  * (3) the contract is for the disposal of property for which it is impracticable to obtain competition.


* (b) Repealed. Pub. L. 96–470, title I, §102(a), Oct. 19, 1980, 94 Stat. 2237.

### §603. Disposition of moneys from disposal of materials
* All moneys received from the disposal of materials under this subchapter shall be disposed of in the same manner as moneys received from the sale of public lands, except that moneys received from the disposal of materials by the Secretary of Agriculture shall be disposed of in the same manner as other moneys received by the Department of Agriculture from the administration of the lands from which the disposal of materials is made, and except that revenues from the lands described in subchapter I of chapter 44 of title 43 and subchapter III of chapter 44 of title 43 shall be disposed of in accordance with said subchapters and except that moneys received from the disposal of materials from school section lands in Alaska, reserved under section 1 of the Act of March 4, 1915 (38 Stat. 1214), shall be set apart as separate and permanent funds in the Territorial Treasury, as provided for income derived from said school section lands pursuant to said Act.

### §604. Disposal of sand, peat moss, etc., in Alaska; contracts
* Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the Secretary may dispose of sand, stone, gravel, and vegetative materials located below highwater mark of navigable waters of the Territory of Alaska. Any contract, unexecuted in whole or in part, for the disposal under this subchapter of materials from land, title to which is transferred to a future State upon its admission to the Union, and which is situated within its boundaries, may be terminated or adopted by such State.