### SUBCHAPTER XXIX—CANYONLANDS NATIONAL PARK

### §271. Establishment; description of area
* In order to preserve an area in the State of Utah possessing superlative scenic, scientific, and archeologic features for the inspiration, benefit, and use of the public, there is hereby established the Canyonlands National Park which, subject to valid existing rights, shall comprise the area generally depicted on the drawing entitled "Boundary Map, Canyonlands National Park, Utah", numbered 164–91004 and dated June 1970, which shows the boundaries of the park having a total of approximately three hundred and thirty-seven thousand two hundred and fifty-eight acres. The map is on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.

### §271a. Acquisition of lands; authority of Secretary; exchange of property; cash equalization payments; transfer from Federal agency to administrative jurisdiction of Secretary; lands subject to reclamation and power withdrawals
* Within the area which lies within the boundaries of the park, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to acquire lands and interests in lands by such means as he may deem to be in the public interest. The Secretary may accept title to any non-Federal property within the park, including State-owned school sections and riverbed lands, and in exchange therefor he may convey to the grantor of such property any federally owned property under his jurisdiction within the State of Utah, notwithstanding any other provision of law. The properties so exchanged shall be of the same classification, as near as may be, and shall be of approximately equal value, and the Secretary shall take administrative action to complete transfer on any lands in a proper application by the State of Utah on or before the expiration of one hundred twenty days following the date of enactment of this Act [September 12, 1964] or any amendment thereto: _Provided_, That the Secretary may accept cash from, or pay cash to, the grantor in such an exchange in order to equalize the values of the properties exchanged. Federal property located within the boundaries of the park may, with the concurrence of the agency having custody thereof, be transferred to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior, without consideration, for use by him in carrying out the purposes of this subchapter. Any lands within the boundaries of the park which are subject to Bureau of Reclamation or Federal Power Commission withdrawals are hereby freed and exonerated from any such withdrawal and shall, on September 12, 1964, become a part of the Canyonlands National Park subject to no qualifications except those imposed by this subchapter or any amendment thereto.

### §271b. Grazing privileges; right of occupancy or use for fixed term of years; renewal
* Where any Federal lands included within the Canyonlands National Park are legally occupied or utilized on the date of approval of this Act or any amendment thereto for grazing purposes, pursuant to a lease, permit, or license for a fixed term of years issued or authorized by any department, establishment, or agency of the United States, the Secretary of the Interior shall permit the persons holding such grazing privileges to continue in the exercise thereof during the term of the lease, permit, or license, and one period of renewal thereafter.

### §271c. Access roads
#### (a) Entrance roads and connections; administrative headquarters sites
* In order to provide suitable access to the Canyonlands National Park and facilities and services required in the operation and administration of the park, the Secretary may select the location or locations of an entrance road or roads to such park and to points of interest therein from United States Route 160 and State Routes 24 and 95, including necessary entrance and related administrative headquarters sites upon lands located outside the park, and he may select a suitable location or locations outside the park for connections between entrance roads and between roads lying within the Canyonlands National Park.

#### (b) Acquisition of lands; authority of Secretary; rights-of-way acreage limitation; administration
* To carry out the purposes of this section, the Secretary may acquire non-Federal lands or interests in lands by donation, purchase, condemnation, exchange, or such other means as he may deem to be in the public interest: _Provided_, That lands and interests in lands acquired outside the park as rights-of-way for said entrance roads and connections shall not exceed an average of one hundred twenty-five acres per mile. Rights-of-way and entrance and administrative sites acquired pursuant to this authority shall be administered pursuant to such special regulations as the Secretary may promulgate in furtherance of the purposes of this section.

#### (c) Parkway standards for entrance roads and connections; approval of Secretary of Agriculture for construction of roads crossing national forest land
* The Secretary may construct, reconstruct, improve, and maintain upon the lands or interests in lands acquired pursuant to this section, or otherwise in Government ownership, an entrance road or roads and connections of parkway standards, including necessary bridges and other structures and utilities as necessary, and funds appropriated for the National Park Service shall be available for these purposes: _Provided_, That if any portion of such road or roads crosses national forest land the Secretary shall obtain the approval of the Secretary of Agriculture before construction of such portion shall begin.

#### (d) Forest road; cooperation of Secretary of the Interior with Secretary of Agriculture; extension
* The Secretary is hereby authorized to cooperate with the Secretary of Agriculture in the location and extension of a forest development road from State Route 95 and may extend the same from the national forest boundary to the park and points of interest therein in accordance with the applicable provisions of this section.

### §271d. Administration, protection, and development
* Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the administration, protection, and development of the Canyonlands National Park, as established pursuant to this subchapter, shall be exercised by the Secretary of the Interior in accordance with the provisions of the Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1 and the following), as amended and supplemented.

### §271e. Report to President
* Within three years from November 12, 1971, the Secretary of the Interior shall report to the President, in accordance with section 1132(c) and (d) of this title, his recommendations as to the suitability or nonsuitability of any area within the national park for preservation as wilderness, and any designation of any such area as a wilderness shall be accomplished in accordance with said section 1132(c) and (d) of this title.

### §271g. Authorization of appropriations
* There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter, not to exceed, however, $104,500 for the acquisition of lands and not to exceed $5,102,000 (April 1970 prices) for development, plus or minus such amounts, if any, as may be justified by reason of ordinary fluctuations in construction costs as indicated by engineering cost indexes applicable to the types of construction involved herein. The sums authorized in this section shall be available for acquisition and development in the areas added by this subchapter.