### **CHAPTER 14—TRUST TERRITORY OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS**

### §1681. Continuance of civil government for Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands; assistance programs; maximum fiscal year costs; reimbursement
* (a) Until Congress shall further provide for the government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, all executive, legislative, and judicial authority necessary for the civil administration of the Trust Territory shall continue to be vested in such person or persons and shall be exercised in such manner and through such agency or agencies as the President of the United States may direct or authorize.

* (b) The head of any department, corporation, or other agency of the executive branch of the Government may, upon the request of the Secretary of the Interior, extend to the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, with or without reimbursement, scientific, technical, and other assistance under any program administered by such agency, or extend to the Trust Territory any Federal program administered by such agency, if the assistance or program will promote the welfare of the Trust Territory, notwithstanding any provision of law under which the Trust Territory may otherwise be ineligible for the assistance or program: _Provided_, That the Secretary of the Interior shall not request assistance pursuant to this subsection that involves, in the aggregate, an estimated nonreimbursable cost in any one fiscal year in excess of $150,000: _Provided further_, That the cost of any program extended to the Trust Territory under this subsection shall be reimbursable out of appropriations authorized and made for the government of the Trust Territory pursuant to section 2 of this Act, as amended. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to financial assistance under a grant-in-aid program.

### §1681a. Appointment of High Commissioner
* Any appointment made on or after May 10, 1967, to the office of the High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands shall be made by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.

### §1681b. Transfer of functions from government comptroller for Guam to Inspector General, Department of the Interior
#### (a) Functions, powers, and duties transferred
* The following functions, powers, and duties heretofore vested in the government comptroller for Guam with respect to the government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands and the government of the Northern Mariana Islands are hereby transferred to the Inspector General, Department of the Interior, for the purpose of establishing an organization which will maintain a satisfactory level of independent audit oversight of the governments of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, and the Northern Mariana Islands:

  * (1) The authority to audit all accounts pertaining to the revenue and receipts of the governments of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, and the Northern Mariana Islands, and of funds derived from bond issues, and the authority to audit, in accordance with law and administrative regulations, all expenditures of funds and property pertaining to the aforementioned governments including those pertaining to trust funds held by such governments.

  * (2) The authority to report to the Secretary of the Interior, the High Commissioner of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the chief executives of the governments of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, and the Northern Mariana Islands all failures to collect amounts due the governments, and expenditures of funds or uses of property which are irregular or not pursuant to law.

#### (b) Scope of authority transferred
* The authority granted in paragraph (a) shall extend to all activities of the governments of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, and the Northern Mariana Islands, and shall be in addition to the authority conferred upon the Inspector General by the Inspector General Act of 1978 (92 Stat. 1101), as amended. This section is not subject to termination under section 502(a)(3) of the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States of America (90 Stat. 263, 268).

#### (c) Transfer of personnel, assets, etc., of office of government comptroller for Guam to Office of Inspector General, Department of the Interior
* In order to carry out the provisions of this section, the personnel, assets, liabilities, contracts, property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds employed, held, used, arising from, available or to be made available, of the office of the government comptroller for Guam related to its audit function, with respect to the government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands and the government of the Northern Mariana Islands are hereby transferred to the Office of Inspector General, Department of the Interior.

### §1683. Auditing of transactions of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
* All financial transactions of the Trust Territory, including such transactions of all agencies or instrumentalities established or utilized by such Trust Territory, may be audited by the Government Accountability Office, at its discretion, in accordance with chapter 35 of title 31.

### §1684. Expenditure of funds for administration of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
* After June 30, 1954, no funds appropriated by any Act and no funds which are available or which may become available from any source whatever shall be used for administration of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, except as may be specifically authorized by law.

### §1685. Transfer of property or money for administration of Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands
* After June 30, 1952, transfers to the Department of the Interior pursuant to chapters 1 to 11 of title 40 and division C (except sections 3302, 3307(e), 3501(b), 3509, 3906, 4710, and 4711) of subtitle I of title 41 of equipment, material and supplies, excess to the needs of Federal agencies may be made at the request of the Secretary of the Interior without reimbursement or transfer of funds when required by the Interior Department for operations conducted in the administration of the Territories and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.

### §1688. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Economic Development Loan Fund
* For the purpose of promoting economic development in the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior, for payment to the government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands as a grant in accordance with the provisions of sections 1688 to 1693 of this title, an amount which when added to the development fund established pursuant to section 3 of the Act of August 22, 1964 (78 Stat. 601), as augmented by subsequent Federal grants, will create a total fund of $5,000,000, which shall thereafter be known as the Trust Territory Economic Development Loan Fund.

### §1689. Plan for use of grant to Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Economic Development Loan Fund; loans; terms
* The grant authorized by section 1688 of this title shall be made only after the government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands has submitted to the Secretary of the Interior a plan for the use of the grant, and the plan has been approved by the Secretary. The plan shall provide among other things for a revolving fund to make loans or to guarantee loans to private enterprise. The term of any loan made pursuant to the plan shall not exceed twenty-five years.

### §1690. Loans from Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands Economic Loan Fund; restrictions; guarantees
* No loan or loan guarantee shall be made under sections 1688 to 1693 of this title to any applicant who does not satisfy the territorial administering agency that financing is otherwise unavailable on reasonable terms and conditions. No loan or loan guarantee shall exceed (1) the amount which can reasonably be expected to be repaid, (2) the minimum amount necessary to accomplish the purposes of sections 1688 to 1693 of this title, or 25 per centum of the funds appropriated pursuant to section 1688 of this title. No loan guarantee shall guarantee more than 90 per centum of the outstanding amount of any loan, and the reserves maintained to guarantee the loan shall not be less than 25 per centum of the guarantee.

### §1691. Fiscal control and accounting procedures for plan for use of grant
* The plan provided for in section 1689 of this title shall set forth such fiscal control and accounting procedures as may be necessary to assure proper disbursement, repayment, and accounting for such funds.

### §1692. Comprehensive annual financial report by chief executives of governments of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, and Northern Mariana Islands; contents; other reports
* The chief executives of the governments of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, and the Northern Mariana Islands shall prepare, publish, and submit to the Congress and the Secretary of the Interior a comprehensive annual financial report in conformance with the standards of the National Council on Governmental Accounting within one hundred and twenty days after the close of the fiscal year. The comprehensive annual financial report shall include statistical data as set forth in the standards of the National Council on Governmental Accounting relating to the physical, economic, social, and political characteristics of the government, and any other information required by the Congress. The chief executives shall also make such other reports at such other times as may be required by the Congress or under applicable Federal laws. This section is not subject to termination under section 502(a)(3) of the Covenant to Establish a Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in Political Union with the United States of America (90 Stat. 263, 268).

### §1693. Audit of government; access to books, records, etc.
* The Comptroller General of the United States, or any of his duly authorized representatives, shall have access, for the purpose of audit and examination, to any relevant books, documents, papers, or records of the government of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.

### §1695. Federal education and health care programs; nonapplicability or nonparticipation
* Notwithstanding any other provision of law, except in cases in which the Federal program is terminated with respect to all recipients under the program, Federal programs in the fields of education and health care shall not cease to apply to the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or any successor government or governments, and shall continue to be available to the extent said territory or its successor or successors are eligible to participate in such programs. Participation in any applicable Federal programs in the fields of education and health care by the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands or any successor government or governments shall not be denied, decreased or ended, either before or after the termination of the trusteeship, without the express approval of the United States Congress and shall continue at such levels as the Congress may provide in appropriation Acts.