### SUBCHAPTER VI—STANDARD BARRELS

### §231. Standard barrel for apples; steel barrels
* The standard barrel for apples shall be of the following dimensions when measured without distention of its parts: Length of stave, twenty-eight and one-half inches; diameter of head, seventeen and one-eighth inches; distance between heads, twenty-six inches; circumference of bulge, sixty-four inches outside measurement, representing as nearly as possible seven thousand and fifty-six cubic inches: _Provided_, That steel barrels containing the interior dimensions provided for in this section shall be construed as a compliance therewith.

### §232. Barrels below standard; marking
* All barrels packed with apples shall be deemed to be below standard if the barrel bears any statement, design, or device indicating that the barrel is a standard barrel of apples, as defined in section 231 of this title, and the capacity of the barrel is less than the capacity prescribed by said section, unless the barrel shall be plainly marked on end and side with words or figures showing the fractional relation which the actual capacity of the barrel bears to the capacity prescribed by said section. The marking required by this section shall be in block letters of size not less than seventy-two point (one-inch) gothic.

### §233. Penalty for violations
* Any person, firm, or corporation, or association who shall knowingly pack or cause to be packed apples in barrels, or who shall knowingly sell or offer for sale such barrels in violation of the provisions of this Act shall be liable to a penalty of $1 and costs for each such barrel so sold or offered for sale, to be recovered at the suit of the United States in any court of the United States having jurisdiction.

### §234. Standard barrel for fruits or other dry commodity
* The standard barrel for fruits, vegetables, and other dry commodities other than cranberries shall be of the following dimensions when measured without distention of its parts: Length of stave, twenty-eight and one-half inches; diameter of heads, seventeen and one-eighth inches; distance between heads, twenty-six inches; circumference of bulge, sixty-four inches, outside measurement; and the thickness of staves not greater than four-tenths of an inch: _Provided_, That any barrel of a different form having a capacity of seven thousand and fifty-six cubic inches shall be a standard barrel. The standard barrel for cranberries shall be of the following dimensions when measured without distention of its parts: Length of staves, twenty-eight and one-half inches; diameter of head, sixteen and one-fourth inches; distance between heads, twenty-five and one-fourth inches; circumference of bulge, fifty-eight and one-half inches, outside measurement; and the thickness of staves not greater than four-tenths of an inch.

### §235. Sale or shipment of barrel of less capacity than standard; punishment
* It shall be unlawful to sell, offer, or expose for sale in any State, Territory, or the District of Columbia, or to ship from any State, Territory, or the District of Columbia to any other State, Territory, or the District of Columbia or to a foreign country, a barrel containing fruits or vegetables or any other dry commodity of less capacity than the standard barrels defined in section 234 of this title, known as the third, half, and three-quarters barrel, and any person guilty of a willful violation of any of the provisions of sections 234 to 236 of this title shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be liable to a fine not to exceed $500, or imprisonment not to exceed six months, in the court of the United States having jurisdiction: _Provided, however_, That no barrel shall be deemed below standard within the meaning of said sections when shipped to any foreign country and constructed according to the specifications or directions of the foreign purchaser if not constructed in conflict with the laws of the foreign country to which the same is intended to be shipped.

### §236. Variations from standard permitted; prosecutions; law not applicable to certain barrels
* Reasonable variations shall be permitted and tolerance shall be established by rules and regulations made by the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology and approved by the Secretary of Commerce. Prosecutions for offenses under this section or sections 234 or 235 of this title may be begun upon complaint of local sealers of weights and measures or other officers of the several States and Territories appointed to enforce the laws of the said States or Territories, respectively, relating to weights and measures: _Provided, however_, That nothing in this section or sections 234 and 235 of this title shall apply to barrels used in packing or shipping commodities sold exclusively by weight or numerical count.

### §237. Standard barrels for lime
* There is established a large and a small barrel of lime, the large barrel to consist of two hundred and eighty pounds and the small barrel to consist of one hundred and eighty pounds, net weight.

### §238. Penalty for selling in barrels not marked
* It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale lime imported in barrels from a foreign country, or to sell or offer for sale lime in barrels for shipment from any State or Territory or the District of Columbia, to any other State or Territory or the District of Columbia, unless there shall be stenciled or otherwise clearly marked on one or both heads of the small barrel the figures "180 lbs. net" and of the large barrel the figures "280 lbs. net" before the importation or shipment, and on either barrel in addition the name of the manufacturer of the lime and where manufactured, and, if imported, the name of the country from which it is imported.

### §239. Sale in containers of less capacity than barrel
* When lime is sold in interstate or foreign commerce in containers of less capacity than the standard small barrel, it shall be sold in fractional parts of said standard small barrel, and the net weight of lime contained in such container shall by stencil or otherwise be clearly marked thereon, together with the name of the manufacturer thereof, and the name of the brand, if any, under which it is sold, and, if imported, the name of the country from which it is imported.

### §240. Rules and regulations
* Rules and regulations for the enforcement of sections 237 to 242 of this title, not inconsistent with the provisions of said sections, shall be made by the Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology and approved by the Secretary of Commerce, and such rules and regulations shall include reasonable variations or tolerances which may be allowed.

### §241. Penalty for selling lime in unmarked barrels and containers
* It shall be unlawful to pack, sell, or offer for sale for shipment from any State or Territory or the District of Columbia to any other State or Territory or the District of Columbia, any barrels or other containers of lime which are not marked as provided in sections 238 and 239 of this title, or to sell, charge for, or purport to deliver from any State or Territory or the District of Columbia to any other State or Territory or the District of Columbia, as a large or small barrel or a fractional part of said small barrel of lime, any less weight of lime than is established by the provisions of sections 237 to 242 of this title and any person guilty of a violation of the provisions of said sections shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be liable to a fine not exceeding $100.

### §242. Duty of United States attorney to enforce law
* It shall be the duty of each United States attorney, to whom satisfactory evidence of any violation of sections 237 to 242 of this title is presented, to cause appropriate proceedings to be commenced and prosecuted in the United States court having jurisdiction of such offense.