### SUBCHAPTER II—MEXICO-UNITED STATES INTERPARLIAMENTARY GROUP

### §276h. United States group; appointment; term; meetings
* Not to exceed twenty-four Members of Congress shall be appointed to meet jointly and at least annually with representatives of the Chamber of Deputies and Chamber of Senators of the Mexican Congress for discussion of common problems in the interests of relations between the United States and Mexico. Of the Members of the Congress to be appointed for the purposes of this subchapter (hereinafter designated as the United States group) half shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House from Members of the House (not less than four of whom shall be from the Foreign Affairs Committee), and half shall be appointed by the President of the Senate upon recommendations of the majority and minority leaders of the Senate from Members of the Senate (not less than four of whom shall be from the Foreign Relations Committee). Such appointments shall be for the period of each meeting of the Mexico-United States Interparliamentary group except for the four members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and the four members of the Foreign Relations Committee, whose appointments shall be for the duration of each Congress. The Chairman or Vice Chairman of the House delegation shall be a Member from the Foreign Affairs Committee, and, unless the President of the Senate, upon the recommendation of the Majority Leader, determines otherwise, the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Senate delegation shall be a Member from the Foreign Relations Committee.

### §276i. Authorization of appropriations; disbursements
* An appropriation of $120,000 annually is authorized, $60,000 of which shall be for the House delegation and $60,000 for the Senate delegation, or so much thereof as may be necessary, to assist in meeting the expenses of the United States group of the Mexico-United States Interparliamentary group for each fiscal year for which an appropriation is made, the House and Senate portions of such appropriation to be disbursed on vouchers to be approved by the Chairman of the House delegation and the Chairman of the Senate delegation, respectively.

### §276j. Report to Congress
* The United States group of the Mexico-United States Interparliamentary group shall submit to the Congress a report for each fiscal year for which an appropriation is made including its expenditures under such appropriation.

### §276k. Auditing of accounts
* The certificate of the Chairman of the House delegation or the Senate delegation of the Mexico-United States Interparliamentary group shall on and after April 9, 1960 be final and conclusive upon the accounting officers in the auditing of the accounts of the United States group of the Mexico-United States Interparliamentary group.