### **CHAPTER 19—GUIDED MISSILES**

### §501. Establishment of long-range proving ground for guided missiles and other weapons; jurisdiction of Secretary of the Air Force; use by all Services
* The Secretary of the Air Force is authorized to establish a joint long-range proving ground for guided missiles and other weapons by the construction, installation, or equipment of temporary or permanent public works, including buildings, facilities, appurtenances, and utilities, within or without the continental limits of the United States, for scientific study, testing, and training purposes by the Departments of the Army, Navy, and Air Force.

### §502. Acquisition of land
* The Secretary of the Air Force is authorized in discharging the authority given in section 501 of this title to make surveys, to acquire lands and rights or other interests pertaining thereto, including the temporary use thereof, by donation, purchase, exchange of Government-owned lands, or otherwise, without regard to section 3324(a) and (b) of title 31. Prior to the acquisition under the authority of this section of any lands or rights or other interests pertaining thereto, the Secretary of the Air Force shall come into agreement with the Armed Services Committees of the Senate and the House of Representatives with respect to the acquisition of such lands, rights, or other interests.

### §503. Authorization of appropriations
* There is authorized to be appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, not to exceed $75,000,000 to carry out the purposes of sections 501 and 502 of this title.

### §504. Delegation of authority by Secretary of Defense; contributions for support
* The Secretary of Defense is authorized, in his discretion, to transfer to the Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Navy, and to retransfer from either of such Secretaries to the other or to the Secretary of the Air Force, all, or any part of, the authority granted by sections 501 and 502 of this title; and, in connection with any such transfer or retransfer, to transfer all or any part of the funds available for the establishment and support of the joint long-range proving ground for guided missiles and other weapons. The Secretary of Defense is further authorized to permit, to the extent that he may deem appropriate, the Secretaries of the Army, the Navy, and the Air Force to contribute, with or without reimbursement, to the establishment and support of the joint long-range proving ground for guided missiles authorized by this chapter, by the loan, assignment, or transfer of personnel, supplies, equipment, and services.