### §1316. Administrative and judicial review of public assistance determinations
#### (a) Determination of conformity with requirements for approval; petition for reconsideration; hearing; time limitations; review by court of appeals
* (1) Whenever a State plan is submitted to the Secretary by a State for approval under subchapter I, X, XIV, XVI, or XIX, he shall, not later than 90 days after the date the plan is submitted to him, make a determination as to whether it conforms to the requirements for approval under such subchapter. The 90-day period provided herein may be extended by written agreement of the Secretary and the affected State.

* (2) Any State dissatisfied with a determination of the Secretary under paragraph (1) of this subsection with respect to any plan may, within 60 days after it has been notified of such determination, file a petition with the Secretary for reconsideration of the issue of whether such plan conforms to the requirements for approval under such subchapter. Within 30 days after receipt of such a petition, the Secretary shall notify the State of the time and place at which a hearing will be held for the purpose of reconsidering such issue. Such hearing shall be held not less than 20 days nor more than 60 days after the date notice of such hearing is furnished to such State, unless the Secretary and such State agree in writing to holding the hearing at another time. The Secretary shall affirm, modify, or reverse his original determination within 60 days of the conclusion of the hearing.

* (3) Any State which is dissatisfied with a final determination made by the Secretary on such a reconsideration or a final determination of the Secretary under section 304, 1204, 1354, 1384, or 1396c of this title may, within 60 days after it has been notified of such determination, file with the United States court of appeals for the circuit in which such State is located a petition for review of such determination. A copy of the petition shall be forthwith transmitted by the clerk of the court to the Secretary. The Secretary thereupon shall file in the court the record of the proceedings on which he based his determination as provided in section 2112 of title 28.

* (4) The findings of fact by the Secretary, if supported by substantial evidence, shall be conclusive; but the court, for good cause shown, may remand the case to the Secretary to take further evidence, and the Secretary may thereupon make new or modified findings of fact and may modify his previous action, and shall certify to the court the transcript and record of the further proceedings. Such new or modified findings of fact shall likewise be conclusive if supported by substantial evidence.

* (5) The court shall have jurisdiction to affirm the action of the Secretary or to set it aside, in whole or in part. The judgment of the court shall be subject to review by the Supreme Court of the United States upon certiorari or certification as provided in section 1254 of title 28.

#### (b) Amendment of plans
* For the purposes of subsection (a), any amendment of a State plan approved under subchapter I, X, XIV, XVI, or XIX, may, at the option of the State, be treated as the submission of a new State plan.

#### (c) Restitution when Secretary reverses his determination
* Action pursuant to an initial determination of the Secretary described in subsection (a) shall not be stayed pending reconsideration, but in the event that the Secretary subsequently determines that his initial determination was incorrect he shall certify restitution forthwith in a lump sum of any funds incorrectly withheld or otherwise denied.

#### (d) Disallowance of items covered under other subchapters
* Whenever the Secretary determines that any item or class of items on account of which Federal financial participation is claimed under subchapter I, X, XIV, XVI, shall be disallowed for such participation, the State shall be entitled to and upon request shall receive a reconsideration of the disallowance.

#### (e) Disallowance of items covered under subchapter XIX
* (1) Whenever the Secretary determines that any item or class of items on account of which Federal financial participation is claimed under subchapter XIX shall be disallowed for such participation, the State shall be entitled to and upon request shall receive a reconsideration of the disallowance, provided that such request is made during the 60-day period that begins on the date the State receives notice of the disallowance.

* (2)(A) A State may appeal a disallowance of a claim for federal financial participation under subchapter XIX by the Secretary, or an unfavorable reconsideration of a disallowance, during the 60-day period that begins on the date the State receives notice of the disallowance or of the unfavorable reconsideration, in whole or in part, to the Departmental Appeals Board, established in the Department of Health and Human Services (in this paragraph referred to as the "Board"), by filing a notice of appeal with the Board.

* (B) The Board shall consider a State's appeal of a disallowance of such a claim (or of an unfavorable reconsideration of a disallowance) on the basis of such documentation as the State may submit and as the Board may require to support the final decision of the Board. In deciding whether to uphold a disallowance of such a claim or any portion thereof, the Board shall be bound by all applicable laws and regulations and shall conduct a thorough review of the issues, taking into account all relevant evidence. The Board's decision of an appeal under subparagraph (A) shall be the final decision of the Secretary and shall be subject to reconsideration by the Board only upon motion of either party filed during the 60-day period that begins on the date of the Board's decision or to judicial review in accordance with subparagraph (C).

* (C) A State may obtain judicial review of a decision of the Board by filing an action in any United States District Court located within the appealing State (or, if several States jointly appeal the disallowance of claims for Federal financial participation under section 1396b of this title, in any United States District Court that is located within any State that is a party to the appeal) or the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. Such an action may only be filed—

  * (i) if no motion for reconsideration was filed within the 60-day period specified in subparagraph (B), during such 60-day period; or

  * (ii) if such a motion was filed within such period, during the 60-day period that begins on the date of the Board's decision on such motion.