### **CHAPTER 6—AMERICAN PRINTING HOUSE FOR THE BLIND**

### §101. Annual appropriations
* For the purpose of enabling the American Printing House for the Blind more adequately to provide books and apparatus for the education of the blind, there is hereby authorized to be appropriated annually to it, such sum as the Congress may determine; which sum shall be expended in accordance with the requirements of sections 101, 102, and 104 of this title, under rules and regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Education, to promote the education of the blind.

### §102. Application of appropriations
* The Secretary of Education is authorized to pay over semiannually, to the trustees of the American Printing House for the Blind, located in Louisville, Kentucky, and chartered in 1858 by the Legislature of Kentucky, upon requisition of their president, countersigned by their treasurer, one-half of such annual appropriation upon the following conditions:

* #### (1) Purposes and methods of expenditures
  * First. (A) Such appropriation shall be expended by the trustees of the American Printing House for the Blind each year in manufacturing and furnishing books and other materials specially adapted for instruction of the blind; and the total amount of such books and other materials so manufactured and furnished by such appropriation shall each year be distributed among all the public and private nonprofit institutions in the States, Territories, and possessions of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia, in which blind pupils are educated. Each public and private nonprofit institution for the education of the blind shall receive, in books and other materials, upon requisition of its superintendent, that portion of the appropriation as is shown by the ratio between the number of blind pupils in that institution and the total number of blind pupils in all of the public and private nonprofit institutions in which blind pupils are educated. Each chief State school officer shall receive, in books and other materials, upon requisition, that portion of the appropriation as is shown by the ratio between the number of blind pupils in public and private nonprofit institutions (in the State) in which blind pupils are educated, other than institutions to which the preceding sentence is applicable, and the total number of blind pupils in the public and private nonprofit institutions in which blind pupils are educated in all of the States, Territories, and possessions of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia. The ratio referred to in each of the two immediately preceding sentences shall be computed upon the first Monday in January of each year; and for purposes of such sentences the number of blind pupils in public and private nonprofit institutions in which blind pupils are educated shall be authenticated in such manner and as often as the trustees of the American Printing House for the Blind shall require. For purposes of sections 101, 102, and 104 of this title, an institution for the education of the blind is any institution which provides education exclusively for the blind, or exclusively for the blind and other handicapped children (in which case special classes are provided for the blind); the chief State school officer of a State is the superintendent of public elementary and secondary schools in such State or, if there is none, such other official as the Governor certifies to have comparable responsibility in the State; and a blind pupil is a blind individual pursuing a course of study in an institution of less than college grade.

  * (B) The portion of the appropriation received by each chief State school officer, in such books and other materials under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph which represents the number of blind pupils in private nonprofit institutions in such State in which blind pupils are educated shall be distributed among such institutions on the basis of the number of blind pupils in each such institution as compared to the total number of such pupils in all of the private nonprofit institutions in which blind pupils are educated in such State.

  * (C) All books and other materials furnished pursuant to sections 101, 102, and 104 of this title, and control and administration of their use, shall vest only in a public agency. Such books and materials made available pursuant to sections 101, 102 and 104 of this title for use of teachers and blind pupils in any State, Territory, or possession of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia in any school shall be limited to those books and materials which have been approved by an appropriate educational authority or agency of such State, Territory, possession, Commonwealth, or District, or any local educational authority thereof, for use, or are used, in a public elementary or secondary school therein.

* #### (2) Buildings
  * Second. No part of the appropriation shall be expended in the erection or leasing of buildings; but the trustees of the American Printing House for the Blind may use each year a reasonable sum of the annual appropriation for salaries and other expenses of experts and other staff to assist special committees which may be appointed in performance of their functions, and for expenses of such special committees.

* #### (3) Sales of books and apparatus at cost
  * Third. No profit shall be put on any books or tangible apparatus for the instruction of the blind manufactured or furnished by the trustees of said American Printing House for the Blind, located in Louisville, Kentucky; and the price put upon each article so manufactured or furnished shall only be its actual cost.

* #### (4) Income withheld when not properly used
  * Fourth. The Secretary of the Treasury of the United States shall have the authority to withhold the appropriation whenever he shall receive satisfactory proof that the trustees of said American Printing House for the Blind, located in Louisville, Kentucky, are not using the appropriation for the benefit of the blind in the public and private nonprofit institutions for the education of the blind in the United States.

* #### (5) Bond of treasurer
  * Fifth. Before any money be paid to the treasurer of the American Printing House for the Blind by the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, the treasurer of the American Printing House for the Blind shall execute a bond, with two approved sureties, to the amount of $20,000, conditioned that the money so received shall be expended according to this law and all amendments thereto, which shall be held by the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, and shall be renewed every two years.

* #### (6) Ex officio trustees
  * Sixth. The superintendent of each public institution for the education of the blind (or his designee) and the chief State school officer (or his designee), of each State and possession of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia, shall each, ex officio, be a member of the Board of Trustees of the American Printing House for the Blind only for purposes of administering sections 101, 102 and 104 of this title.

### §103. Publications for National Library for the Blind
* Two copies of each of the publication printed by the American Printing House for the Blind shall be furnished free of charge to the National Library for the Blind located at 1729 H Street Northwest, Washington, District of Columbia.

### §104. Annual reports by trustees
* The trustees of said American Printing House for the Blind shall annually make to the Secretary of Education a report of the items of their expenditure of the appropriation aforesaid during the year preceding their report, and shall annually furnish him with a voucher from each public or private nonprofit institution for the education of the blind, showing that the amount of books and tangible apparatus due has been received.

### §105. Books for Library of Congress
* The distribution of embossed books manufactured by the American Printing House for the Blind at Louisville, Kentucky, out of the income of the fund provided by sections 101, 102, and 104 of this title, shall include one copy of every book so manufactured to be deposited in the Library of Congress at Washington.

### §106. Purchases through the General Services Administration
* On and after September 8, 1978, the American Printing House for the Blind is authorized to make purchases through the General Services Administration.

### §106a. Financial and program audit by Secretary
* Funds appropriated in this Act or subsequent Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Acts to the American Printing House for the Blind shall be subject to financial and program audit by the Secretary of Education and the Secretary may withhold all or any portion of these appropriations if he determines that an institution has not cooperated fully in the conduct of such audits.