### §6k. Registration of associates of futures commission merchants, commodity pool operators, and commodity trading advisors; required disclosure of disqualifications; exemptions for associated persons
* (1) It shall be unlawful for any person to be associated with a futures commission merchant as a partner, officer, or employee, or to be associated with an introducing broker as a partner, officer, employee, or agent (or any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions), in any capacity that involves (i) the solicitation or acceptance of customers' orders (other than in a clerical capacity) or (ii) the supervision of any person or persons so engaged, unless such person is registered with the Commission under this chapter as an associated person of such futures commission merchant or of such introducing broker and such registration shall not have expired, been suspended (and the period of suspension has not expired), or been revoked. It shall be unlawful for a futures commission merchant or introducing broker to permit such a person to become or remain associated with the futures commission merchant or introducing broker in any such capacity if such futures commission merchant or introducing broker knew or should have known that such person was not so registered or that such registration had expired, been suspended (and the period of suspension has not expired), or been revoked. Any individual who is registered as a floor broker, futures commission merchant, or introducing broker (and such registration is not suspended or revoked) need not also register under this paragraph.

* (2) It shall be unlawful for any person to be associated with a commodity pool operator as a partner, officer, employee, consultant, or agent (or any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions), in any capacity that involves (i) the solicitation of funds, securities, or property for a participation in a commodity pool or (ii) the supervision of any person or persons so engaged, unless such person is registered with the Commission under this chapter as an associated person of such commodity pool operator and such registration shall not have expired, been suspended (and the period of suspension has not expired), or been revoked. It shall be unlawful for a commodity pool operator to permit such a person to become or remain associated with the commodity pool operator in any such capacity if the commodity pool operator knew or should have known that such person was not so registered or that such registration had expired, been suspended (and the period of suspension has not expired), or been revoked. Any individual who is registered as a floor broker, futures commission merchant, introducing broker, commodity pool operator, or as an associated person of another category of registrant under this section (and such registration is not suspended or revoked) need not also register under this paragraph. The Commission may exempt any person or class of persons from having to register under this paragraph by rule, regulation, or order.

* (3) It shall be unlawful for any person to be associated with a commodity trading advisor as a partner, officer, employee, consultant, or agent (or any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions), in any capacity which involves (i) the solicitation of a client's or prospective client's discretionary account or (ii) the supervision of any person or persons so engaged, unless such person is registered with the Commission under this chapter as an associated person of such commodity trading advisor and such registration shall not have expired, been suspended (and the period of suspension has not expired), or been revoked. It shall be unlawful for a commodity trading advisor to permit such a person to become or remain associated with the commodity trading advisor in any such capacity if the commodity trading advisor knew or should have known that such person was not so registered or that such registration had expired, been suspended (and the period of suspension has not expired), or been revoked. Any individual who is registered as a floor broker, futures commission merchant, introducing broker, commodity trading advisor, or as an associated person of another category of registrant under this section (and such registration is not suspended or revoked) need not also register under this paragraph. The Commission may exempt any person or class of persons from having to register under this paragraph by rule, regulation, or order.

* (4) Any person desiring to be registered as an associated person of a futures commission merchant, of an introducing broker, of a commodity pool operator, or of a commodity trading advisor shall make application to the Commission in the form and manner prescribed by the Commission, giving such information and facts as the Commission may deem necessary concerning the applicant. Such person, when registered hereunder, shall likewise continue to report and furnish to the Commission such information as the Commission may require. Such registration shall expire at such time as the Commission may by rule, regulation, or order prescribe.

* (5) It shall be unlawful for any registrant to permit a person to become or remain an associated person of such registrant, if the registrant knew or should have known of facts regarding such associated person that are set forth as statutory disqualifications in section 12a(2) of this title, unless such registrant has notified the Commission of such facts and the Commission has determined that such person should be registered or temporarily licensed.

* (6) Any associated person of a broker or dealer that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and who limits its solicitation of orders, acceptance of orders, or execution of orders, or placing of orders on behalf of others involving any contracts of sale of any commodity for future delivery or any option on such a contract, on or subject to the rules of any contract market or registered derivatives transaction execution facility to security futures products, shall be exempt from the following provisions of this chapter and the rules thereunder:

  * (A) Subsections (b), (d), (e), and (g) of section 6c of this title.

  * (B) Sections 6d, 6e, and 6h of this title.

  * (C) Subsections (b) and (c) of section 6f of this title.

  * (D) Section 6j of this title.

  * (E) Paragraph (1) of this section.

  * (F) Section 6p of this title.

  * (G) Section 13a–2 of this title.

  * (H) Subsections (d) and (g) of section 12 of this title.

  * (I) Section 20 of this title.