### SUBCHAPTER IV—GENERAL PROVISIONS

### §1030. Consolidation of agricultural credit and service offices
* The Secretary of Agriculture and the Governor of the Farm Credit Administration are directed, wherever practicable, to make suitable arrangements whereby all field offices under their supervision or direction extending agricultural credit or furnishing agricultural services to farmers to utilize the same or adjacent offices to the end that eligible farmers in each locality will be enabled to obtain their agricultural credit and services at one central point.

### §1031. Conveyance of mineral rights with land
* Any conveyance of real estate by the Government or any Government agency under this Act shall include all mineral rights.

### §1032. Transfer of rights and duties of Reconstruction Finance Corporation arising out of rehabilitation and farm tenancy loans to Secretary of the Treasury
* All rights, interests, obligations, and duties of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation arising out of loans made or authorized to be made to the Secretary of Agriculture for the purpose of making rural rehabilitation and farm tenancy loans in accordance with the Department of Agriculture Appropriation Act of 1947 and prior appropriations and loans under the Farmers Home Administration Act of 1946 are, as of the close of June 30, 1947, vested in the Secretary of the Treasury; the Reconstruction Finance Corporation is authorized and directed to transfer, as of the close of June 30, 1947, to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to receive all loans outstanding on that date, plus accrued unpaid interest, theretofore made to the Secretary under the provisions of the Acts named above, and all notes and other evidences thereof and all obligations constituting the security therefor. The Secretary of the Treasury shall cancel notes of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, and sums due and unpaid upon or in connection with such notes at the time of such cancellation, in an amount equal to the unpaid principal of the loans so transferred, plus accrued unpaid interest through June 30, 1947. Subsequent to June 30, 1947, the Reconstruction Finance Corporation shall make no further loans or advances to the Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed, in lieu of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, to lend or advance to the Secretary, in accordance with the provisions of said Acts to any unobligated or unadvanced balances of the sums which the Reconstruction Finance Corporation has theretofore been authorized and directed to lend to the Secretary. For the purpose of making such loans or advances, the Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to use as a public-debt transaction the proceeds from the sale of any securities issued under chapter 31 of title 31, and the purposes for which securities may be issued under that chapter are extended to include such loans or advances to the Secretary of Agriculture. Repayments to the Secretary of Treasury on such loans or advances shall be treated as a public-debt transaction of the United States.

### §1032a. Disbursing and certifying officers; exemption from liability for advances to defense relocation corporations
* The Comptroller General of the United States is authorized and directed to allow credit in the accounts of disbursing and certifying officers for advances made in good faith on behalf of the Department of Agriculture to defense relocation corporations and land purchasing associations.

### §1033. Sale of reserved mineral interests
* Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in sections 1033 to 1035 and 1037 to 1039 of this title as the "Secretary") is authorized and directed to sell, as provided in said sections, all mineral interests now owned by the United States, which have been reserved or acquired by it under any program heretofore administered by the Resettlement Administration, or the Farm Security Administration, or now administered by the Farmers Home Administration, except the program administered pursuant to sections 1010 to 1012 of this title and the program for the liquidation of labor camps pursuant to Public Law 298, Eightieth Congress.

### §1034. Persons to whom mineral interests sold; conveyances
* Such mineral interests shall be sold only to private persons who shall apply therefor and who at the time of application are the owners of the surface of the land covered by the application. Applicants shall establish their title to the surface of the land covered by the application to the satisfaction of the Secretary at their own expense. Conveyances of mineral interests shall be by quitclaim deed executed by the Secretary or his delegate.

### §1035. Sale of mineral interests; consideration; transfer of unsold interests to Secretary of the Interior
* In areas where the Secretary determines after consultation with the Department of the Interior and competent local authorities that there is no active mineral development or leasing, the mineral interests covered by a single application shall be sold for a consideration of $1. In other areas the mineral interests shall be sold at the fair market value thereof as determined by the Secretary after taking into consideration such appraisals as he deems necessary or appropriate. Area determinations made by the Secretary pursuant to this section may be revised from time to time and the consideration to be obtained for the mineral interests in connection with any particular tract of land shall be determined by the rule applicable to the area in which the tract is located at the time of the application therefor: _Provided_, That, in the event any mineral interests covered by sections 1033 to 1039 of this title are not sold as provided herein pursuant to application filed within seven years from September 6, 1950, or within seven years from the date of acquisition of the mineral interests of the United States, whichever date is later, the Secretary shall forthwith transfer title to such mineral interests, with the exception of those which were a part of or derived from the assets transferred pursuant to transfer agreements with State rural rehabilitation corporations, to the Secretary of the Interior to be administered under the mineral laws of the United States.

### §1037. Sale of reserved mineral interests; disposition of proceeds
* All proceeds from sales made under sections 1033 to 1039 of this title of mineral interests described in section 1033 of this title shall be covered into the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous receipts, except that the proceeds from sales of mineral interests which were a part of or derived from the assets transferred pursuant to the transfer agreements with State rural rehabilitation corporations shall be credited to the appropriate corporation account.

### §1038. Regulations; delegations of authority
* The Secretary may make such rules and regulations and such delegations of authority as he may deem necessary to carry out the provisions of sections 1033 to 1039 of this title.

### §1039. Time for filing purchase applications
* No application for the purchase of mineral interests under sections 1033 to 1039 of this title shall be filed until ninety days after September 6, 1950.

### §1040. Farmers' Home Administration funds account
* When authorized by appropriation or other law, funds of the Farmers' Home Administration available for administrative expenses may be placed in a single account.