### **CHAPTER 2001—SOCIETY OF AMERICAN FLORISTS AND ORNAMENTAL HORTICULTURISTS**

### §200101. Organization
* Society of American Florists and Ornamental Horticulturists (in this chapter, the "corporation") is a body corporate and politic in the District of Columbia.

### §200102. Purposes
* The purposes of the corporation are to educate members of the florist industry and the public, and to promote scientific development, in floriculture and horticulture.

### §200103. Powers
* The corporation may—

  * (1) adopt a constitution and bylaws for the management of its property and the regulation of its affairs; and

  * (2)(A) hold property, in the District of Columbia or elsewhere, necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation, in an amount not to exceed $1,000,000; and

  * (B) hold other property donated or bequeathed in any State or territory of the United States.

### §200104. Restrictions
* (a) PROFIT.—The corporation may not operate for profit.

* (b) USE OF EARNINGS.—Earnings generated by the corporation may be used only for the purposes provided in section 200102 of this title.

* (c) USE OF PROPERTY.—Property held by the corporation, and the proceeds from the property, may be used only for the purposes provided in section 200102 of this title.

* (d) PARKS IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.—The corporation may not occupy any park in the District of Columbia.

### §200105. Principal office
* The principal office of the corporation shall be located in the District of Columbia. However, annual meetings may be held wherever the corporation decides.

### §200106. Nonapplication of audit requirements
* The audit requirements of section 10101 of this title do not apply to the corporation.