### **CHAPTER 8—DEVELOPMENT OF LIGNITE COAL RESOURCES**

### §401. Establishment of research laboratory; duties
* The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the United States Bureau of Mines, is authorized and directed to establish, equip, and maintain a research laboratory in the lignite-consuming region of North Dakota to conduct researches and investigations on the mining, preparation, and utilization of lignite coal and to develop new scientific, chemical, and technical uses and new and extended markets and outlets for lignite coal and its products. Such laboratory shall be planned as a center for information and assistance in matters pertaining to conserving lignite coal resources for national defense and security; to the more efficient mining, preparation, and utilization of lignite coal; and pertaining to safety, health, and sanitation in mining operations and other matters relating to problems of the lignite industry.

### §402. Acquisition of lands and property; utilization of voluntary services; cooperation with other Federal, State, and private agencies
* For the purpose of this chapter the Secretary, acting through the United States Bureau of Mines, is authorized to acquire land and interests therein, and to accept in the name of the United States donations of any property, real or personal, and to utilize voluntary or uncompensated services at such laboratory. The Secretary is authorized and directed to cooperate with other departments or agencies of the Federal Government, States, and State agencies and institutions, counties, municipalities, business or other organizations, corporations, associations, universities, scientific societies, and individuals, upon such terms and conditions as he may prescribe.

### §404. Establishment of an advisory committee; composition and appointment
* The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the United States Bureau of Mines, may, in his discretion, create and establish an advisory committee composed of not more than six members to exercise consultative functions, when required by the Secretary, in connection with the administration of this chapter. The said committee shall be composed of representatives of lignite coal-mine owners, of representatives of lignite coal-mine workers and the public in equal number. The members of said committee shall be appointed by the Secretary of the Interior without regard to the civil-service laws.