### SUBCHAPTER III—INDEMNITY PAYMENTS TO DAIRY FARMERS

### §4551. Indemnity payments to dairy farmers and manufacturers of dairy products; milk removed for its residue of chemical or toxic substances; nuclear radiation or fallout contaminants; other legal recourse
* The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized to make indemnity payments for milk or cows producing such milk at a fair market value, to dairy farmers who have been directed since January 1, 1964 (but only since August 10, 1973, in the case of indemnity payments not authorized prior to August 10, 1973), to remove their milk, and to make indemnity payments for dairy products at fair market value to manufacturers of dairy products who have been directed since November 30, 1970, to remove their dairy products from commercial markets because of residues of chemicals registered and approved for use by the Federal Government at the time of such use. The Secretary is also authorized to make indemnity payments for milk, or cows producing such milk, at a fair market value to any dairy farmer who is directed to remove his milk from commercial markets because of (1) the presence of products of nuclear radiation or fallout if such contamination is not due to the fault of the farmer, or (2) residues of chemicals or toxic substances not included under the first sentence of this section if such chemicals or toxic substances were not used in a manner contrary to applicable regulations or labeling instructions provided at the time of use and the contamination is not due to the fault of the farmer: _Provided_, That no indemnity payment may be made for contamination resulting from such residues of chemicals or toxic substances if the Secretary determines within thirty days after the date of application for payment that other legal recourse is available to the farmer. Any indemnity payment to any farmer shall continue until he has been reinstated and is again allowed to dispose of his milk on commercial markets.

### §4552. Authorization of appropriations for dairy farmer indemnities
* There is hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.

### §4553. Expiration of dairy farmer indemnity program
* The authority granted under this subchapter shall expire on September 30, 2023.