### PART D—WILDERNESS

### §460uu–31. Designation; description of area
* (a) In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness Act (78 Stat. 890) [16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.], there are hereby designated as wilderness, and, therefore, as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System, the Cebolla Wilderness of approximately 60,000 acres, and the West Malpais Wilderness of approximately 38,210 acres, as each is generally depicted on the map entitled "El Malpais National Monument and National Conservation Area" numbered NM–ELMA–80,001–B and dated May 1987. The map shall be on file and available for inspection in the offices of the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior.

* (b) As soon as practicable after December 31, 1987, the Secretary shall file a legal description of each wilderness area designated by this subchapter with the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives and with the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate. Such legal description shall have the same force and effect as if included in this subchapter, except that the Secretary may correct clerical and typographical errors in such legal description. The legal description shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior.

### §460uu–32. Management; provisions applicable
* (a) Subject to valid existing rights, each wilderness area designated under this subchapter shall be administered by the Secretary, through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, in accordance with the provisions of the Wilderness Act [16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.] governing areas designated by that Act as wilderness, except that any reference in such provisions to the effective date of the Wilderness Act shall be deemed to be a reference to December 31, 1987.

* (b) Within the wilderness areas designated by this subchapter, the grazing of livestock, where established prior to December 31, 1987, shall be permitted to continue subject to such reasonable regulations, policies, and practices as the Secretary deems necessary, as long as such regulations, policies, and practices fully conform with and implement the intent of Congress regarding grazing in such areas as such intent is expressed in the Wilderness Act [16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.] and section 108 of Public Law 96–560 (16 U.S.C. 1133 note).